README.md, before:

# Rootwork.org publishing system

Currently [Rootwork.org](https://rootwork.org) has a [temporary landing page](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork_landing); this publishing system will replace it once it's ready.

---

Rootwork is created with the static site generator [Hugo](http://gohugo.io)
using the [Hugo Clarity](https://github.com/chipzoller/hugo-clarity) theme with
customizations. I also have some Bash scripts (that I usually run with `npm`
out of habit, but could be run directly) to
[create a post](#creating-a-new-post), [start the server](#local-development)
and
[generate a production copy of the site](#generating-the-site-for-production).

<!-- The following section, from "ts" to "te", is an automatically-generated
  table of contents, updated whenever this file changes. Do not edit within
  this section. -->

<!--ts-->
* [Rootwork.org publishing system](#rootworkorg-publishing-system)
* [Local development](#local-development)
   * [Creating a new post](#creating-a-new-post)
   * [Editing site variables](#editing-site-variables)
   * [Editing the theme](#editing-the-theme)
      * [Updating the theme](#updating-the-theme)
* [Generating the site for production](#generating-the-site-for-production)
* [Fresh installation](#fresh-installation)
   * [Go](#go)
   * [Hugo](#hugo)
   * [This repo](#this-repo)
* [Updating dependencies](#updating-dependencies)
   * [Go](#go-1)
   * [Hugo](#hugo-1)
* [Licenses](#licenses)

<!-- Added by: runner, at: Tue Feb 15 03:24:30 UTC 2022 -->

<!--te-->

# Local development

`npm run s` or `./scripts/server_start.sh`

The web browser will automatically open to [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/); hit refresh to load the site.

By default Hugo will run with fastRender **on** and buildDrafts **off**. You can
use the flags `-s` and `-d` to change this. For details, run `npm run s -- -h`.

## Creating a new post

`npm run n` or `./scripts/new_blog_post.sh`

This script will:

- Ask you for a title
- Ask you for a date (defaults to today)
- Create an appropriate slug
- Create [taxonomy year and month files](https://www.jayeless.net/2021/04/taxonomies-archive-hugo.html), if necessary (cf. https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/issues/448 )
- Create the necessary Markdown file, with sane defaults, at the appropriate directory/file location
- Open the file in Sublime

It does much more than just `hugo new ...`.

## Editing site variables

You can find text strings and other variables in several places:

- `hugo/config/_default/config.toml` (main configuration)
- `hugo/i18n/en.toml` (translatable strings, such as the copyright)
- `hugo/config/_default/menus/menu.en.toml` (menus)
- `hugo/config/_default/configTaxo.toml` (embedded social media settings)
- `hugo/config/_default/markup.toml` (settings for Hugo's markup highlighter)
- `hugo/config/_default/params.toml` (other site parameters used in the theme)

## Editing the theme

Customizing a theme is done by [overriding theme
files](https://gohugobrasil.netlify.app/themes/customizing/). Don't edit the
files in `themes` directly, as they're stored with git submodules.

Add notes at the top of any overridden files using Go comments (`{{/* */}}`) to
note what has been changed -- this vastly eases integrating new changes to the
overridden files from upstream.

Custom styles can be added using the `_custom.scss` file within `assets`. Use
`_override.scss` to change the theme's variables located in `_variables.sass`.

### Updating the theme

Use `git submodule foreach git pull origin master` to pull in upstream changes.
If that errors, you can also try `git submodule update --init --recursive`. Note
that there's no real guarantee this won't break things in the theme!

# Generating the site for production

`npm run p` or `./scripts/production_build.sh`

All content images will be optimized, and modern `.webp` and `.avif` images will be created.

The `public` directory, if it exists, will be removed to ensure that no outdated
files are present, and then the static site will be re-generated in `public`.

Note that `public` is excluded from the repo in `.gitignore`, so this command
should be run from a GitHub Action to generate the site online.

By default, Hugo's minification is turned on. This can be
[fine-tuned in configuration](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/#configure-minify). If you wish to disable it completely, use
`npm run p -- -m` instead.

# Fresh installation

## Go

- [Follow the instructions](https://golang.org/doc/install)

## Hugo

- Get the `hugo_extended_VERSION_OS-64bit.*` [package from GitHub
releases](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases) (e.g.
`hugo_extended_0.81.0_Linux-64bit.deb`). On Debian-based Linux systems, ignore
the alert that [an older package is available in the
channel](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing#debian-and-ubuntu).
- Install the package, which will place it in `/usr/local/bin/hugo`.

## This repo

- `git clone git@github.com:rootwork/rootwork.org.git`
- `cd rootwork.org`
- `git submodule update --init --recursive`

# Updating dependencies

## Go

- Check version: `go version`
- [Remove old version and install new
version](https://gist.github.com/nikhita/432436d570b89cab172dcf2894465753)

## Hugo

- Check version: `hugo version`
- `sudo rm -rf /usr/local/bin/hugo`
- Reinstall following the instructions above.

# Licenses

The content of the site, contained in the Markdown files in the `hugo/content`
directory and its subdirectories **only**, is [licensed](hugo/content/LICENSE)
under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).
Images or other media in these directories may have different copyright and
licensing statuses.

Hugo itself is licensed as
[Apache v2.0](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/LICENSE).

The theme Rootwork.org uses, Hugo Clarity, is licensed under the
[MIT license](https://github.com/chipzoller/hugo-clarity/blob/master/LICENSE.md).

Modifications to the theme, as well as the files in the `scripts` directory,
are licensed under the
[GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt), as
noted in the general project
[LICENSE](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork.org/blob/master/LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

add node/npm note
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

README.md, after:

# Rootwork.org publishing system

Currently [Rootwork.org](https://rootwork.org) has a [temporary landing page](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork_landing); this publishing system will replace it once it's ready.

---

Rootwork is created with the static site generator [Hugo](http://gohugo.io)
using the [Hugo Clarity](https://github.com/chipzoller/hugo-clarity) theme with
customizations. I also have some Bash scripts (that I usually run with `npm`
out of habit, but could be run directly) to
[create a post](#creating-a-new-post), [start the server](#local-development)
and
[generate a production copy of the site](#generating-the-site-for-production).

<!-- The following section, from "ts" to "te", is an automatically-generated
  table of contents, updated whenever this file changes. Do not edit within
  this section. -->

<!--ts-->
* [Rootwork.org publishing system](#rootworkorg-publishing-system)
* [Local development](#local-development)
   * [Creating a new post](#creating-a-new-post)
   * [Editing site variables](#editing-site-variables)
   * [Editing the theme](#editing-the-theme)
      * [Updating the theme](#updating-the-theme)
* [Generating the site for production](#generating-the-site-for-production)
* [Fresh installation](#fresh-installation)
   * [Go](#go)
   * [Hugo](#hugo)
   * [This repo](#this-repo)
* [Updating dependencies](#updating-dependencies)
   * [Go](#go-1)
   * [Hugo](#hugo-1)
* [Licenses](#licenses)

<!-- Added by: runner, at: Tue Feb 15 03:24:30 UTC 2022 -->

<!--te-->

# Local development

`npm run s` or `./scripts/server_start.sh`

The web browser will automatically open to [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/); hit refresh to load the site.

By default Hugo will run with fastRender **on** and buildDrafts **off**. You can
use the flags `-s` and `-d` to change this. For details, run `npm run s -- -h`.

## Creating a new post

`npm run n` or `./scripts/new_blog_post.sh`

This script will:

- Ask you for a title
- Ask you for a date (defaults to today)
- Create an appropriate slug
- Create [taxonomy year and month files](https://www.jayeless.net/2021/04/taxonomies-archive-hugo.html), if necessary (cf. https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/issues/448 )
- Create the necessary Markdown file, with sane defaults, at the appropriate directory/file location
- Open the file in Sublime

It does much more than just `hugo new ...`.

## Editing site variables

You can find text strings and other variables in several places:

- `hugo/config/_default/config.toml` (main configuration)
- `hugo/i18n/en.toml` (translatable strings, such as the copyright)
- `hugo/config/_default/menus/menu.en.toml` (menus)
- `hugo/config/_default/configTaxo.toml` (embedded social media settings)
- `hugo/config/_default/markup.toml` (settings for Hugo's markup highlighter)
- `hugo/config/_default/params.toml` (other site parameters used in the theme)

## Editing the theme

Customizing a theme is done by [overriding theme
files](https://gohugobrasil.netlify.app/themes/customizing/). Don't edit the
files in `themes` directly, as they're stored with git submodules.

Add notes at the top of any overridden files using Go comments (`{{/* */}}`) to
note what has been changed -- this vastly eases integrating new changes to the
overridden files from upstream.

Custom styles can be added using the `_custom.scss` file within `assets`. Use
`_override.scss` to change the theme's variables located in `_variables.sass`.

### Updating the theme

Use `git submodule foreach git pull origin master` to pull in upstream changes.
If that errors, you can also try `git submodule update --init --recursive`. Note
that there's no real guarantee this won't break things in the theme!

# Generating the site for production

`npm run p` or `./scripts/production_build.sh`

All content images will be optimized, and modern `.webp` and `.avif` images will be created.

The `public` directory, if it exists, will be removed to ensure that no outdated
files are present, and then the static site will be re-generated in `public`.

Note that `public` is excluded from the repo in `.gitignore`, so this command
should be run from a GitHub Action to generate the site online.

By default, Hugo's minification is turned on. This can be
[fine-tuned in configuration](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/#configure-minify). If you wish to disable it completely, use
`npm run p -- -m` instead.

# Fresh installation

## Go

- [Follow the instructions](https://golang.org/doc/install)

## Hugo

- Get the `hugo_extended_VERSION_OS-64bit.*` [package from GitHub
releases](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases) (e.g.
`hugo_extended_0.81.0_Linux-64bit.deb`). On Debian-based Linux systems, ignore
the alert that [an older package is available in the
channel](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing#debian-and-ubuntu).
- Install the package, which will place it in `/usr/local/bin/hugo`.

## This repo

- `git clone git@github.com:rootwork/rootwork.org.git`
- `cd rootwork.org`
- `git submodule update --init --recursive`

## Node/npm

At the moment we're really only using npm to kick off Bash scripts, so no installation (beyond having Node and npm installed) is necessary.

# Updating dependencies

## Go

- Check version: `go version`
- [Remove old version and install new
version](https://gist.github.com/nikhita/432436d570b89cab172dcf2894465753)

## Hugo

- Check version: `hugo version`
- `sudo rm -rf /usr/local/bin/hugo`
- Reinstall following the instructions above.

# Licenses

The content of the site, contained in the Markdown files in the `hugo/content`
directory and its subdirectories **only**, is [licensed](hugo/content/LICENSE)
under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).
Images or other media in these directories may have different copyright and
licensing statuses.

Hugo itself is licensed as
[Apache v2.0](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/LICENSE).

The theme Rootwork.org uses, Hugo Clarity, is licensed under the
[MIT license](https://github.com/chipzoller/hugo-clarity/blob/master/LICENSE.md).

Modifications to the theme, as well as the files in the `scripts` directory,
are licensed under the
[GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.txt), as
noted in the general project
[LICENSE](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork.org/blob/master/LICENSE) file.
