hugo/content/blog/2006-05-28/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Can blogging stop genocide?'
author: ivan
date: '2006-05-28'
lastmod: '2007-09-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'can-blogging-stop-genocide' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/060528

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network is a nonprofit based in DC that is a little
  more than two years old. We began as a student group at Swarthmore College
  with an idea: to change the way the world responds to genocide. As a result of
  our origins as a student group, we have a strong history in using online
  social networking and viral campaigns.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network is a nonprofit to change the way the world
  responds to genocide. Because we began as a student group, we often use online
  social networking and viral campaigns.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'pen-paper_flickr-maria_reyes-mcdavis.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Pen and paper' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [Maria
  Reyes-McDavis](https://www.flickr.com/photos/23300119@N03).'
thumbnail: 'pen-paper_flickr-maria_reyes-mcdavis.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - Flickr
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-05'
---

_Cross-posted to the
[NetSquared blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20070419182635/http://netsquared.org/blog/quixotic/can-blogging-stop-genocide)._

First, I want to thank NetSquared for offering me and the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707132744/http://www.genocideintervention.net/index.php "Visit the Genocide Intervention Network's website")
the opportunity to attend this
[critical event](https://web.archive.org/web/20061031234727/http://netsquared.org/2006/conference '2006 NetSquared Conference').
I had written out my introduction earlier this week, but due to a browser mishap
lost nearly all of it and haven't had time to re-write it until now.

GI-Net is a nonprofit based in DC that is a little more than two years old. We
began as a student group at Swarthmore College with an idea: to change the way
the world responds to genocide. In her groundbreaking and Pulitzer Prize–winning
book, _'A Problem From Hell': America and the Age of Genocide_,
[Samantha Power](https://www.thenation.com/article/archive/why-cant-we/ 'Read a recent commencement speech by Samantha Power')
surveys the U.S. response to genocides in the twentieth century and discovers
that, above all, the reason the United States so often failed to act, or to act
too late or ineffectively, was simply because there was no political will. In
essence, it was easier for presidents and members of Congress to do nothing
while genocide was being perpetrated and apologize for it later, than risk
political capital taking action.

As a result of our origins as a student group, we have a strong history in using
online social networking and viral campaigns, and this continues even as we
branch out into other constituencies. In our first year of existence, we raised
a
[quarter-million dollars](https://web.archive.org/web/20060709042957/http://www.genocideintervention.net/donate/info.php "Learn more about GI-Net's fundraising for peacekeepers")
for peacekeepers in Darfur -- the only NGO to raise money for protection rather
than humanitarian aid -- primarily through student networks, both actual and
virtual. In my work for GI-Net, I am heavily influenced by
[Howard Rheingold](https://rheingold.com/ "Howard Rheingold's website"),
Christian Crumlish's
[_The Power of Many_](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707224126/http://thepowerofmany.com/ "'The Power of Many' book and website"),
[Marty Kearns](https://web.archive.org/web/20060710192840/http://www.network-centricadvocacy.net/ "Marty Kearns' blog")
and
[Network-Centric Advocacy](https://netcentriccampaigns.org/ 'Netcentric Campaigns')
and similar movements.

How can online activism build a movement that prevents and stops genocide? Read
on...

This might get a bit long, so:

### First, a little background...

I am a self-taught
[web developer](https://web.archive.org/web/20070207093051/http://quixotic1.com/ 'My website, quixotic1.com')
and artist (digitally and otherwise) with a strong interest in peacebuilding,
community organizing and empowerment. My major at Swarthmore was not
computer-related but rather peace and conflict studies, for which I wrote a
thesis on
[third-party nonviolent intervention organizations](https://web.archive.org/web/20080828193419/http://quixoticlife.net/tpni 'Read more about the thesis').

While at Swarthmore I was involved with a number of campaigns, most notably
[Why War?](https://web.archive.org/web/20040113040820/http://why-war.com/ 'Visit Why War?').
Why War? was a prominent site for news and analysis against the war (first
Afghanistan, and then Iraq). Its database from 2001–2004 is the most
comprehensive accounting of articles and opinions on the war, resistance to it
and the movements that arose on each side. We are most well-known, however, for
a campaign that had little to do with the war.

In 2003, internal emails from the electronic voting machine manufacturer Diebold
emerged that suggested the company had misled voting officials in numerous
states about the security of its machines, had violated contracts with states by
installing new software that had not been certified, and had knowingly
implemented voting systems with severe security vulnerabilities. Investigative
journalist
[Bev Harris](https://blackboxvoting.org/ 'Bev Harris and Black Box Voting') and
the UK
[_Independent_](https://web.archive.org/web/20040803082657/http://www.why-war.com/news/2003/10/14/allthepr.html "Article: All the President's Votes?")
had documented some of the serious problems, but few had taken notice, and
Harris had been repeatedly threatened by her ISP, fearful of repercussions from
Diebold's lawyers.

A member of Why War? decided to
[post an archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20040712083338/http://www.why-war.com/features/2003/10/diebold.html 'View the Diebold files')
of the internal files on his website. After Swarthmore threatened to shut off
our Internet access in the face of baseless copyright infringement claims from
Diebold, we initiated a global campaign of electronic civil disobedience, in
which students at universities would post mirrors of the files on their own
servers, staying ahead of each specious take-down request. Simultaneously, our
friends in what would become
[FreeCulture.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707010513/http://www.freeculture.org/ 'FreeCulture.org')
sued Diebold through the
[Electronic Frontier Foundation](https://www.eff.org/press/archives/2003/11/03 'Learn more about the Diebold case')
for abusive copyright threats.

The combination of civil disobedience and civil action paid off handsomely.
Within two months, Diebold backed down from their legal threats and resigned
themselves to the damaging information about them now in the public domain.
Suspicion of Diebold and other electronic voting machine manufacturers -- and,
thus, consistent investigation into their practices -- remains high.

### Back to genocide

So how does the Genocide Intervention Network use the Internet to effect social
change? There are three primary ways.

First, we
[raise money online](https://web.archive.org/web/20060118220930/http://www.genocideintervention.net/donate/ 'Learn more about donating to GI-Net')
directly for peacekeepers in Darfur. This is unprecedented -- never before has
the average person been able to directly affect human security in the midst of a
genocide. We raise money through a variety of techniques such as
[virtual house parties](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215139/http://www.genocideintervention.net/fundraise/virtual.php 'Learn about virtual house parties')
(a favorite among Facebook and MySpace users),
[dinners for Darfur](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215126/http://www.genocideintervention.net/fundraise/dinners.php 'Learn about dinners for Darfur')
and old-fashioned member volunteering. (A piano teacher in Utah giving two
weeks' proceeds; a "battle of the bands" fundraiser in California; a bat mitzvah
in New Jersey; a frat party in Massachusetts.)

Our second component is education. People can't act against genocide unless they
know about it, which is why we partnered with the American Progress Action Fund
in 2005 to launch the
[Be A Witness campaign](https://web.archive.org/web/20060703175035/http://beawitness.org/splash/ 'Visit BeAWitness.org'),
urging the news media to adequately cover the crisis in Darfur. Our analysis
showed that in June 2005, the major networks ran 50 times as many stories about
Michael Jackson and 12 times as many stories about Tom Cruise as about the
genocide in Darfur. In fact, in all of 2005 CBS ran just two minutes -- total --
on the issue, a fact that motivated more than 30,000 viewers to take action
through the viral video and website. Because of the paltry news coverage, we
also issue
[weekly news reports](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706214512/http://www.genocideintervention.net/educate/darfurnews/ 'Read the latest report from Darfur')
from the ground in Darfur.

Finally, we give our members the tools to advocate for protection in the face of
genocide. We use
[Democracy in Action](https://web.archive.org/web/20060710155602/http://www.democracyinaction.org/dia/organizationsORG/ginetwork/campaign.jsp?campaign_KEY=3407 'Read our most recent advocacy campaign')
to direct our national campaigns, and work closely with the
[Sudan divestment task force](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707032526/http://www.genocideintervention.net/advocate/divestment/ 'Learn more about divestment from Sudan')
at the state level. In April, we brought more than 850 students to Washington,
D.C. as part of the
{{< deadlink "Power to Protect: D.C. to Darfur" "dl://www.powertoprotect.org/" "Learn more about 'P2P'" >}}
weekend. The P2P website, which uses the
[Drupal](https://drupal.org/ 'Drupal.org') open-source community platform, is
key to sustaining these activists through the summer, when they will act as the
catalysts for local anti-genocide groups in their hometowns.

### Coming up next

We are in the planning stages of a number of exciting online campaigns to
further support the emerging anti-genocide movement. Our main website will be
moved to Drupal to allow our members to connect with local leaders and
organizations, and concretely affect the direction of the national campaigns.

A photo petition, using
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707182012/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/ 'Learn about ForwardTrack')
and our
[Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention 'See our most recent photos on Flickr')
account, will put a human face on the victims in Darfur. Viewers will be asked
to upload images of themselves holding a sign with -- not a comment or a pledge
-- but the name of one of the hundreds of thousands of victims in Darfur. These
photos will be delivered to members of Congress to show the depth of human
involvement -- and human crisis -- around Darfur.

More than one of our members has asked us to be their designated charity for a
marathon, and so our next fundraising tool will be a website to enable them to
do just that. Members will be able to distribute information about the race and
GI-Net, collect pledges online, and then follow-up with donors after the race.

I would be happy to talk further with any of you about GI-Net or
[our ideas](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215202/http://www.genocideintervention.net/advocate/tenthings.php 'Ten things you can do right now to stop genocide!'),
but this post is already mighty long, so I'll stop here. Thanks again for
allowing me to come, and I'm looking forward to seeing everyone!

_Update, Sept. 12, 2007: This blog post has been adapted into a chapter of the
book_
[Online social networking](https://www.worldcat.org/title/online-social-networking/oclc/731757535&referer=brief_results)
_(2008), edited by Sylvia Engdahl, under the title "Online social networking is
being used to oppose genocide."_

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2006-05-28/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Can blogging stop genocide?'
author: ivan
date: '2006-05-28'
lastmod: '2007-09-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'can-blogging-stop-genocide' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/060528

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network is a nonprofit based in DC that is a little
  more than two years old. We began as a student group at Swarthmore College
  with an idea: to change the way the world responds to genocide. As a result of
  our origins as a student group, we have a strong history in using online
  social networking and viral campaigns.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network is a nonprofit to change the way the world
  responds to genocide. Because we began as a student group, we often use online
  social networking and viral campaigns.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'pen-paper_flickr-maria_reyes-mcdavis.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Pen and paper' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [Maria
  Reyes-McDavis](https://www.flickr.com/photos/23300119@N03).'
thumbnail: 'pen-paper_flickr-maria_reyes-mcdavis.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - Flickr
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-05'
---

_Cross-posted to the
[NetSquared blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20070419182635/http://netsquared.org/blog/quixotic/can-blogging-stop-genocide)._

First, I want to thank NetSquared for offering me and the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707132744/http://www.genocideintervention.net/index.php "Visit the Genocide Intervention Network's website")
the opportunity to attend this
[critical event](https://web.archive.org/web/20061031234727/http://netsquared.org/2006/conference '2006 NetSquared Conference').
I had written out my introduction earlier this week, but due to a browser mishap
lost nearly all of it and haven't had time to re-write it until now.

GI-Net is a nonprofit based in DC that is a little more than two years old. We
began as a student group at Swarthmore College with an idea: to change the way
the world responds to genocide. In her groundbreaking and Pulitzer Prize–winning
book, _'A Problem From Hell': America and the Age of Genocide_,
[Samantha Power](https://www.thenation.com/article/archive/why-cant-we/ 'Read a recent commencement speech by Samantha Power')
surveys the U.S. response to genocides in the twentieth century and discovers
that, above all, the reason the United States so often failed to act, or to act
too late or ineffectively, was simply because there was no political will. In
essence, it was easier for presidents and members of Congress to do nothing
while genocide was being perpetrated and apologize for it later, than risk
political capital taking action.

As a result of our origins as a student group, we have a strong history in using
online social networking and viral campaigns, and this continues even as we
branch out into other constituencies. In our first year of existence, we raised
a
[quarter-million dollars](https://web.archive.org/web/20060709042957/http://www.genocideintervention.net/donate/info.php "Learn more about GI-Net's fundraising for peacekeepers")
for peacekeepers in Darfur -- the only NGO to raise money for protection rather
than humanitarian aid -- primarily through student networks, both actual and
virtual. In my work for GI-Net, I am heavily influenced by
[Howard Rheingold](https://rheingold.com/ "Howard Rheingold's website"),
Christian Crumlish's
[_The Power of Many_](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707224126/http://thepowerofmany.com/ "'The Power of Many' book and website"),
[Marty Kearns](https://web.archive.org/web/20060710192840/http://www.network-centricadvocacy.net/ "Marty Kearns' blog")
and
[Network-Centric Advocacy](https://netcentriccampaigns.org/ 'Netcentric Campaigns')
and similar movements.

How can online activism build a movement that prevents and stops genocide? Read
on...

This might get a bit long, so:

### First, a little background...

I am a self-taught
[web developer](https://web.archive.org/web/20070207093051/http://quixotic1.com/ 'My website, quixotic1.com')
and artist (digitally and otherwise) with a strong interest in peacebuilding,
community organizing and empowerment. My major at Swarthmore was not
computer-related but rather peace and conflict studies, for which I wrote a
thesis on
[third-party nonviolent intervention organizations](https://web.archive.org/web/20080828193419/http://quixoticlife.net/tpni 'Read more about the thesis').

While at Swarthmore I was involved with a number of campaigns, most notably
[Why War?](https://web.archive.org/web/20040113040820/http://why-war.com/ 'Visit Why War?').
Why War? was a prominent site for news and analysis against the war (first
Afghanistan, and then Iraq). Its database from 2001–2004 is the most
comprehensive accounting of articles and opinions on the war, resistance to it
and the movements that arose on each side. We are most well-known, however, for
a campaign that had little to do with the war.

In 2003, internal emails from the electronic voting machine manufacturer Diebold
emerged that suggested the company had misled voting officials in numerous
states about the security of its machines, had violated contracts with states by
installing new software that had not been certified, and had knowingly
implemented voting systems with severe security vulnerabilities. Investigative
journalist
[Bev Harris](https://blackboxvoting.org/ 'Bev Harris and Black Box Voting') and
the UK
[_Independent_](https://web.archive.org/web/20040803082657/http://www.why-war.com/news/2003/10/14/allthepr.html "Article: All the President's Votes?")
had documented some of the serious problems, but few had taken notice, and
Harris had been repeatedly threatened by her ISP, fearful of repercussions from
Diebold's lawyers.

A member of Why War? decided to
[post an archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20040712083338/http://www.why-war.com/features/2003/10/diebold.html 'View the Diebold files')
of the internal files on his website. After Swarthmore threatened to shut off
our Internet access in the face of baseless copyright infringement claims from
Diebold, we initiated a global campaign of electronic civil disobedience, in
which students at universities would post mirrors of the files on their own
servers, staying ahead of each specious take-down request. Simultaneously, our
friends in what would become
[FreeCulture.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707010513/http://www.freeculture.org/ 'FreeCulture.org')
sued Diebold through the
[Electronic Frontier Foundation](https://www.eff.org/press/archives/2003/11/03 'Learn more about the Diebold case')
for abusive copyright threats.

The combination of civil disobedience and civil action paid off handsomely.
Within two months, Diebold backed down from their legal threats and resigned
themselves to the damaging information about them now in the public domain.
Suspicion of Diebold and other electronic voting machine manufacturers -- and,
thus, consistent investigation into their practices -- remains high.

### Back to genocide

So how does the Genocide Intervention Network use the Internet to effect social
change? There are three primary ways.

First, we
[raise money online](https://web.archive.org/web/20060118220930/http://www.genocideintervention.net/donate/ 'Learn more about donating to GI-Net')
directly for peacekeepers in Darfur. This is unprecedented -- never before has
the average person been able to directly affect human security in the midst of a
genocide. We raise money through a variety of techniques such as
[virtual house parties](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215139/http://www.genocideintervention.net/fundraise/virtual.php 'Learn about virtual house parties')
(a favorite among Facebook and MySpace users),
[dinners for Darfur](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215126/http://www.genocideintervention.net/fundraise/dinners.php 'Learn about dinners for Darfur')
and old-fashioned member volunteering. (A piano teacher in Utah giving two
weeks' proceeds; a "battle of the bands" fundraiser in California; a bat mitzvah
in New Jersey; a frat party in Massachusetts.)

Our second component is education. People can't act against genocide unless they
know about it, which is why we partnered with the American Progress Action Fund
in 2005 to launch the
[Be A Witness campaign](https://web.archive.org/web/20060703175035/http://beawitness.org/splash/ 'Visit BeAWitness.org'),
urging the news media to adequately cover the crisis in Darfur. Our analysis
showed that in June 2005, the major networks ran 50 times as many stories about
Michael Jackson and 12 times as many stories about Tom Cruise as about the
genocide in Darfur. In fact, in all of 2005 CBS ran just two minutes -- total --
on the issue, a fact that motivated more than 30,000 viewers to take action
through the viral video and website. Because of the paltry news coverage, we
also issue
[weekly news reports](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706214512/http://www.genocideintervention.net/educate/darfurnews/ 'Read the latest report from Darfur')
from the ground in Darfur.

Finally, we give our members the tools to advocate for protection in the face of
genocide. We use
[Democracy in Action](https://web.archive.org/web/20060710155602/http://www.democracyinaction.org/dia/organizationsORG/ginetwork/campaign.jsp?campaign_KEY=3407 'Read our most recent advocacy campaign')
to direct our national campaigns, and work closely with the
[Sudan divestment task force](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707032526/http://www.genocideintervention.net/advocate/divestment/ 'Learn more about divestment from Sudan')
at the state level. In April, we brought more than 850 students to Washington,
D.C. as part of the
{{< deadlink "Power to Protect: D.C. to Darfur" "dl://www.powertoprotect.org/" "Learn more about 'P2P'" >}}
weekend. The P2P website, which uses the
[Drupal](https://drupal.org/ 'Drupal.org') open-source community platform, is
key to sustaining these activists through the summer, when they will act as the
catalysts for local anti-genocide groups in their hometowns.

### Coming up next

We are in the planning stages of a number of exciting online campaigns to
further support the emerging anti-genocide movement. Our main website will be
moved to Drupal to allow our members to connect with local leaders and
organizations, and concretely affect the direction of the national campaigns.

A photo petition, using
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20060707182012/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/ 'Learn about ForwardTrack')
and our
[Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention 'See our most recent photos on Flickr')
account, will put a human face on the victims in Darfur. Viewers will be asked
to upload images of themselves holding a sign with -- not a comment or a pledge
-- but the name of one of the hundreds of thousands of victims in Darfur. These
photos will be delivered to members of Congress to show the depth of human
involvement -- and human crisis -- around Darfur.

More than one of our members has asked us to be their designated charity for a
marathon, and so our next fundraising tool will be a website to enable them to
do just that. Members will be able to distribute information about the race and
GI-Net, collect pledges online, and then follow-up with donors after the race.

I would be happy to talk further with any of you about GI-Net or
[our ideas](https://web.archive.org/web/20060706215202/http://www.genocideintervention.net/advocate/tenthings.php 'Ten things you can do right now to stop genocide!'),
but this post is already mighty long, so I'll stop here. Thanks again for
allowing me to come, and I'm looking forward to seeing everyone!

_Update, Sept. 12, 2007: This blog post has been adapted into a chapter of the
book_
[Online social networking](https://www.worldcat.org/title/online-social-networking/oclc/731757535&referer=brief_results)
_(2008), edited by Sylvia Engdahl, under the title "Online social networking is
being used to oppose genocide."_
