hugo/content/blog/2011-08-05/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Google Plus: Nonprofit and social change implications'
author: ivan
date: '2011-08-05'
lastmod: '2015-10-05' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'google-plus-nonprofit-social-change-implications' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/110805

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  While this presentation does not cover the basics of what Google Plus is and
  how it works, it looks at how nonprofits and activists might effectively use
  Google Plus and highlights its most useful tools. The presentation also
  discusses the effects that Google Plus's approach to social networking might
  have on online activism in general.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  How nonprofits and activists might use Google Plus, and the effects its
  approach to social networking might have on online activism in general.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'google-plus_flickr-west-m.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Google Plus' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'west.m'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'google-plus_flickr-west-m.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
  - Google Plus
  - social change
  - privacy
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2011'
month: '2011-08'
---

Tonight at Philly NetSquared I gave a short presentation on Google Plus and its
implications for nonprofits and social change work. You can
[download a PDF of the slides](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus.pdf) or
[view the presentation on Slideshare](https://www.slideshare.net/rootwork/google-plus-nonprofit-and-social-change-implications).

(Google insists on referring to its system as "Google+" but that wreaks havoc on
search engines, so throughout this post I'll be referring to it as "Google Plus"
instead.)

### Designed for personal profiles

![People only, for now](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-02.jpg ' ')

At the moment, Google Plus is only designed to have profiles for people, similar
to core Facebook profiles. Business profiles, like Facebook Pages, are likely
coming in the future. In the meantime you could try to circumvent this by
creating a "person" with the name of an organization, but just like with
Facebook, that
[risks having your profile deleted](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2007/08/free-ranger-ric.html).
(More on that in a moment.)

One positive aspect of this is that it gets easier to organize among people you
know. Until now, social networks have basically had two models: Public profiles
that don't require real names, like MySpace and Twitter, and private profiles
that do require real names, like Facebook.

With Google Plus, profiles are both public and under people's real names,
meaning that if you have a list of donors, supporters or volunteers you could
conceivably find each one who has a Google Plus profile relatively easily.
(LinkedIn has a similar setup, but is largely used for job-seeking and, unlike
Google Plus, requires an account in order to see profiles -- so at best they are
only semi-public.)

### Professionalizing communications

If you're familiar with
_[The Cathedral & the Bazaar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cathedral_and_the_Bazaar)_
you'll recognize the concepts of formal and informal communication. Unlike
communication among friends, Google Plus is designed to formalize
communications.

In the same way you might segment or target an email to a particular list of
supporters...

![An example of email list segmentation](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-05.jpg ' ')

...you can make the same sort of targeted post through Google Plus:

![Targeting a post on Google Plus](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-06.jpg ' ')

### (Community) organizing

While this is helpful for one-to-one communications, it means organizing in a
group or collective voice -- common in spaces like Facebook Groups, Twitter
hashtags, and blogging circles -- is more difficult.

![Organizing becomes harder](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-07.jpg ' ')

Organic groups simply don't have a mode to interact or connect, with the minor
exception of in a post's comments. That said, if you know who your
["network connectors"](https://nonprofitquarterly.org/building-adaptive-communities-through-network-weaving/ 'Read Valdis Krebs article on network weaving')
are, you might have success at creating viral messages. Google Plus is oriented
around a "multi-hub small world" concept.
([Here's a PDF of Valdis Krebs and June Holley discussing and illustrating these concepts.](http://orgnet.com/BuildingNetworks.pdf))

![Google Plus: Multi-Hub Small World](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-08.jpg ' ')

### On requiring real names

Google Plus, like Facebook before it, has taken the position that all profiles
must be linked to a single actual human person. No pseudonyms, no fictional
characters, no group identities, no profiles of pets or inanimate objects, no
creative or destructive bots. For some online organizers, in contrast to the
chaos of Twitter or MySpace this might seem like a welcome shift.

![Real names required](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-09.jpg ' ')

Indeed, Google CEO Eric Schmidt
[said last year](https://www.npr.org/2011/09/28/140879480/who-are-you-really-activists-fight-for-pseudonyms),

> One of the errors that the Internet made a long time ago is that there was not
> an accurate and non-revocable identity-management service. ... And the best
> example of an identity-management service today that's reasonably reliable is
> Facebook."

However it's important to remember what gets left behind when we require real
names in a social network.

**First: It's dangerous for some people.** Survivors of domestic violence,
political activists in many societies around the world, marginalized folks such
as LGBT people, and anyone who has reason to be anonymous online will simply not
be able to participate. Researcher danah boyd has gone so far as to call Google
Plus's "nymwars" policy
["an abuse of power"](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2011/08/04/real-names.html):

> The people who most heavily rely on pseudonyms in online spaces are those who
> are most marginalized by systems of power. "Real names" policies aren't
> empowering; they're an authoritarian assertion of power over vulnerable
> people.

The Geek Feminism Wiki has an extensive entry on
[who is harmed by "real names" policies](https://geekfeminism.fandom.com/wiki/Who_is_harmed_by_a_%22Real_Names%22_policy%3F).

**Second is the loss of creativity -- and creative activism** -- when we demand
that people tie their writings to a legal identity. (Boyd points out that
somehow Facebook's strict policy on real names has never required Lady Gaga to
identify as Stefani Germanotta.)

In the context of social movements, we sometimes remember organizers through
real names (Martin Luther King, Jr.; Mohandas Gandhi) but often we know them
through names other than what might have been their legal identity: Malcolm X,
Mother Jones, Sylvia Rivera, or Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Ross and known
throughout her work as "Moses").

Activists often use "movement names" of one type or another, like the Chinese
pro-democracy activist Michael Anti,
[recently deleted under Facebook's policy](https://www.cnbc.com/2011/03/08/facebook-closes-china-activists-account-for-pseudonym.html).
Jillian C. York points out at the EFF that
[successful online organizing is often done under a kind of group pseudonym](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/07/case-pseudonyms),
as with the Egyptian uprising originating in posts on the "We Are All Khaled
Said" Facebook page. And of course the use of "handles" online is older than the
Web itself -- arguably older than the Internet, if you consider communication
tools like ham radio.

Some of us would argue that far from being an "error" as Google's Schmidt would
have it, online use of pseudonymous, anonymous, temporary, artistic, or
otherwise "unofficial" identities has been a core reason for the Internet's
growth and strength. So if this does represent a broader shift toward
identity-focused social networks, activists will need to adapt and, in some
cases, circumvent these policies.

_Update, Oct. 5, 2015: The EFF has launched an initiative called
[The Nameless Coalition](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/10/global-coalition-facebook-authentic-names-are-authentically-dangerous-your-users),
calling on all social networks to step back from "real name" policies._

### Google Plus Hangouts

In addition to Google Plus profiles, Google has launched a new video-chatting
system called Google+ Hangouts. This could be useful to online organizers both
for quick collaboration with colleagues and for impromptu webinars with
supporters. Although there are participation limits, for small groups this
offers a welcome no-cost alternative to platforms like WebEx or GoToMeeting.

![Impromptu webinars with supporters](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-12.jpg ' ')

### Conclusion

Whenever I talk about online organizing, I emphasize that it's important to **go
where your people are**.

![Go where your people are](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-13.jpg ' ')

There are aspects of every social network I like and don't like, as an organizer
and as a participant. It's absolutely true that online social networks are
seeking to monetize our friendships, volunteer us to generate content for their
platforms, and sell the data they collect on us -- the oft-repeated truism that
"if you're not paying for the product, you are the product." But as an
organizer, I go on Facebook the same way that in earlier eras organizers might
have gone to churches or pubs: Not because those are places they'd personally
hang out but because that's where the people are.

So don't be swayed by "shiny object syndrome" -- if your supporters, fellow
activists, or sympathetic communities aren't showing up on Google Plus, there's
no reason for you to prioritize it. As with any online platform, your organizing
strategy should come first, technology second.

### Resources

#### Google Plus and nonprofits/activism

- [Google+ and Nonprofits](https://nonprofitorgs.wordpress.com/2011/07/08/google-and-nonprofits-no-worries-if-you-have-yet-to-be-invited/),
  Nonprofit Tech 2.0
- [Security and Control: Early thoughts on Google+](https://amysampleward.org/2011/06/30/security-and-control-early-thoughts-on-google/),
  Amy Sample Ward
- [Charities Explore Potential of Google+ Social Network](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/charities-explore-potential-of-google-social-network/),
  Chronicle of Philanthropy
- [What Google+ Means for Political Advocacy and Campaigning](https://www.epolitics.com/2011/06/30/what-google-means-for-political-advocacy-and-campaigning/),
  Colin Delany, e.politics
- [Google+ for Crowdsourcing Crisis Information, Crisis Mapping and Disaster Response,](https://web.archive.org/web/20111020023250/http://irevolution.net/2011/07/03/google-humanitarian-technology/)
  Patrick Meier
- [Ways Google+ Can Help Nature and Wildlife Lovers](https://blog.nwf.org/2011/07/ways-google-can-help-nature-and-wildlife-lovers/),
  Adam Jack, National Wildlife Federation
- [The promise of Google+ for organizing](https://www.alevin.com/?p=2616), Adina
  Levin

#### General Google Plus resources

- [How to Use Google Plus](https://readwrite.com/how_to_start_with_google_plus/),
  ReadWriteWeb
- [How Is Google+ Like Twitter And Facebook?](https://web.archive.org/web/20111125044917/http://www.mediabistro.com/alltwitter/how-is-google-like-twitter-and-facebook-infographic_b11782),
  MediaBistro
- [A Guide to Google+ Privacy](https://lifehacker.com/a-guide-to-google-privacy-and-information-control-5827683),
  Lifehacker
- [Doing Good on Google Plus](https://web.archive.org/web/20120117145155/http://causepl.us/)
- [Nonprofit Tech folks on Google Plus](https://web.archive.org/web/20111010025435/http://www.group.as/np%20tech/)

#### 'Nymwars' real-name debate

- [Real Name Policies Are an Abuse of Power](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2011/08/04/real-names.html),
  danah boyd
- [A Case for Pseudonyms](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/07/case-pseudonyms),
  Jillian C. York, EFF
- [Change.org petition in support of Google Plus pseudonyms](https://www.change.org/p/google-inc-google-needs-to-allow-pseudonyms-on-services-like-google-for-anonymity)
- [Google+ and Diversity](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=2948), Jon Pincus
- [Who is harmed by a "Real Names" policy?](https://geekfeminism.fandom.com/wiki/Who_is_harmed_by_a_%22Real_Names%22_policy%3F),
  Geek Feminism Wiki

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2011-08-05/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Google Plus: Nonprofit and social change implications'
author: ivan
date: '2011-08-05'
lastmod: '2015-10-05' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'google-plus-nonprofit-social-change-implications' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/110805

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  While this presentation does not cover the basics of what Google Plus is and
  how it works, it looks at how nonprofits and activists might effectively use
  Google Plus and highlights its most useful tools. The presentation also
  discusses the effects that Google Plus's approach to social networking might
  have on online activism in general.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  How nonprofits and activists might use Google Plus, and the effects its
  approach to social networking might have on online activism in general.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'google-plus_flickr-west-m.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Google Plus' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'west.m'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'google-plus_flickr-west-m.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
  - Google Plus
  - social change
  - privacy
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2011'
month: '2011-08'
---

Tonight at Philly NetSquared I gave a short presentation on Google Plus and its
implications for nonprofits and social change work. You can
[download a PDF of the slides](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus.pdf) or
[view the presentation on Slideshare](https://www.slideshare.net/rootwork/google-plus-nonprofit-and-social-change-implications).

(Google insists on referring to its system as "Google+" but that wreaks havoc on
search engines, so throughout this post I'll be referring to it as "Google Plus"
instead.)

### Designed for personal profiles

![People only, for now](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-02.jpg ' ')

At the moment, Google Plus is only designed to have profiles for people, similar
to core Facebook profiles. Business profiles, like Facebook Pages, are likely
coming in the future. In the meantime you could try to circumvent this by
creating a "person" with the name of an organization, but just like with
Facebook, that
[risks having your profile deleted](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2007/08/free-ranger-ric.html).
(More on that in a moment.)

One positive aspect of this is that it gets easier to organize among people you
know. Until now, social networks have basically had two models: Public profiles
that don't require real names, like MySpace and Twitter, and private profiles
that do require real names, like Facebook.

With Google Plus, profiles are both public and under people's real names,
meaning that if you have a list of donors, supporters or volunteers you could
conceivably find each one who has a Google Plus profile relatively easily.
(LinkedIn has a similar setup, but is largely used for job-seeking and, unlike
Google Plus, requires an account in order to see profiles -- so at best they are
only semi-public.)

### Professionalizing communications

If you're familiar with
_[The Cathedral & the Bazaar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cathedral_and_the_Bazaar)_
you'll recognize the concepts of formal and informal communication. Unlike
communication among friends, Google Plus is designed to formalize
communications.

In the same way you might segment or target an email to a particular list of
supporters...

![An example of email list segmentation](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-05.jpg ' ')

...you can make the same sort of targeted post through Google Plus:

![Targeting a post on Google Plus](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-06.jpg ' ')

### (Community) organizing

While this is helpful for one-to-one communications, it means organizing in a
group or collective voice -- common in spaces like Facebook Groups, Twitter
hashtags, and blogging circles -- is more difficult.

![Organizing becomes harder](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-07.jpg ' ')

Organic groups simply don't have a mode to interact or connect, with the minor
exception of in a post's comments. That said, if you know who your
["network connectors"](https://nonprofitquarterly.org/building-adaptive-communities-through-network-weaving/ 'Read Valdis Krebs article on network weaving')
are, you might have success at creating viral messages. Google Plus is oriented
around a "multi-hub small world" concept.
([Here's a PDF of Valdis Krebs and June Holley discussing and illustrating these concepts.](http://orgnet.com/BuildingNetworks.pdf))

![Google Plus: Multi-Hub Small World](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-08.jpg ' ')

### On requiring real names

Google Plus, like Facebook before it, has taken the position that all profiles
must be linked to a single actual human person. No pseudonyms, no fictional
characters, no group identities, no profiles of pets or inanimate objects, no
creative or destructive bots. For some online organizers, in contrast to the
chaos of Twitter or MySpace this might seem like a welcome shift.

![Real names required](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-09.jpg ' ')

Indeed, Google CEO Eric Schmidt
[said last year](https://www.npr.org/2011/09/28/140879480/who-are-you-really-activists-fight-for-pseudonyms),

> One of the errors that the Internet made a long time ago is that there was not
> an accurate and non-revocable identity-management service. ... And the best
> example of an identity-management service today that's reasonably reliable is
> Facebook."

However it's important to remember what gets left behind when we require real
names in a social network.

**First: It's dangerous for some people.** Survivors of domestic violence,
political activists in many societies around the world, marginalized folks such
as LGBT people, and anyone who has reason to be anonymous online will simply not
be able to participate. Researcher danah boyd has gone so far as to call Google
Plus's "nymwars" policy
["an abuse of power"](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2011/08/04/real-names.html):

> The people who most heavily rely on pseudonyms in online spaces are those who
> are most marginalized by systems of power. "Real names" policies aren't
> empowering; they're an authoritarian assertion of power over vulnerable
> people.

The Geek Feminism Wiki has an extensive entry on
[who is harmed by "real names" policies](https://geekfeminism.fandom.com/wiki/Who_is_harmed_by_a_%22Real_Names%22_policy%3F).

**Second is the loss of creativity -- and creative activism** -- when we demand
that people tie their writings to a legal identity. (Boyd points out that
somehow Facebook's strict policy on real names has never required Lady Gaga to
identify as Stefani Germanotta.)

In the context of social movements, we sometimes remember organizers through
real names (Martin Luther King, Jr.; Mohandas Gandhi) but often we know them
through names other than what might have been their legal identity: Malcolm X,
Mother Jones, Sylvia Rivera, or Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Ross and known
throughout her work as "Moses").

Activists often use "movement names" of one type or another, like the Chinese
pro-democracy activist Michael Anti,
[recently deleted under Facebook's policy](https://www.cnbc.com/2011/03/08/facebook-closes-china-activists-account-for-pseudonym.html).
Jillian C. York points out at the EFF that
[successful online organizing is often done under a kind of group pseudonym](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/07/case-pseudonyms),
as with the Egyptian uprising originating in posts on the "We Are All Khaled
Said" Facebook page. And of course the use of "handles" online is older than the
Web itself -- arguably older than the Internet, if you consider communication
tools like ham radio.

Some of us would argue that far from being an "error" as Google's Schmidt would
have it, online use of pseudonymous, anonymous, temporary, artistic, or
otherwise "unofficial" identities has been a core reason for the Internet's
growth and strength. So if this does represent a broader shift toward
identity-focused social networks, activists will need to adapt and, in some
cases, circumvent these policies.

_Update, Oct. 5, 2015: The EFF has launched an initiative called
[The Nameless Coalition](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/10/global-coalition-facebook-authentic-names-are-authentically-dangerous-your-users),
calling on all social networks to step back from "real name" policies._

### Google Plus Hangouts

In addition to Google Plus profiles, Google has launched a new video-chatting
system called Google+ Hangouts. This could be useful to online organizers both
for quick collaboration with colleagues and for impromptu webinars with
supporters. Although there are participation limits, for small groups this
offers a welcome no-cost alternative to platforms like WebEx or GoToMeeting.

![Impromptu webinars with supporters](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-12.jpg ' ')

### Conclusion

Whenever I talk about online organizing, I emphasize that it's important to **go
where your people are**.

![Go where your people are](2011-08-05_phlnet2_google-plus-13.jpg ' ')

There are aspects of every social network I like and don't like, as an organizer
and as a participant. It's absolutely true that online social networks are
seeking to monetize our friendships, volunteer us to generate content for their
platforms, and sell the data they collect on us -- the oft-repeated truism that
"if you're not paying for the product, you are the product." But as an
organizer, I go on Facebook the same way that in earlier eras organizers might
have gone to churches or pubs: Not because those are places they'd personally
hang out but because that's where the people are.

So don't be swayed by "shiny object syndrome" -- if your supporters, fellow
activists, or sympathetic communities aren't showing up on Google Plus, there's
no reason for you to prioritize it. As with any online platform, your organizing
strategy should come first, technology second.

### Resources

#### Google Plus and nonprofits/activism

- [Google+ and Nonprofits](https://nonprofitorgs.wordpress.com/2011/07/08/google-and-nonprofits-no-worries-if-you-have-yet-to-be-invited/),
  Nonprofit Tech 2.0
- [Security and Control: Early thoughts on Google+](https://amysampleward.org/2011/06/30/security-and-control-early-thoughts-on-google/),
  Amy Sample Ward
- [Charities Explore Potential of Google+ Social Network](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/charities-explore-potential-of-google-social-network/),
  Chronicle of Philanthropy
- [What Google+ Means for Political Advocacy and Campaigning](https://www.epolitics.com/2011/06/30/what-google-means-for-political-advocacy-and-campaigning/),
  Colin Delany, e.politics
- [Google+ for Crowdsourcing Crisis Information, Crisis Mapping and Disaster Response,](https://web.archive.org/web/20111020023250/http://irevolution.net/2011/07/03/google-humanitarian-technology/)
  Patrick Meier
- [Ways Google+ Can Help Nature and Wildlife Lovers](https://blog.nwf.org/2011/07/ways-google-can-help-nature-and-wildlife-lovers/),
  Adam Jack, National Wildlife Federation
- [The promise of Google+ for organizing](https://www.alevin.com/?p=2616), Adina
  Levin

#### General Google Plus resources

- [How to Use Google Plus](https://readwrite.com/how_to_start_with_google_plus/),
  ReadWriteWeb
- [How Is Google+ Like Twitter And Facebook?](https://web.archive.org/web/20111125044917/http://www.mediabistro.com/alltwitter/how-is-google-like-twitter-and-facebook-infographic_b11782),
  MediaBistro
- [A Guide to Google+ Privacy](https://lifehacker.com/a-guide-to-google-privacy-and-information-control-5827683),
  Lifehacker
- [Doing Good on Google Plus](https://web.archive.org/web/20120117145155/http://causepl.us/)
- [Nonprofit Tech folks on Google Plus](https://web.archive.org/web/20111010025435/http://www.group.as/np%20tech/)

#### 'Nymwars' real-name debate

- [Real Name Policies Are an Abuse of Power](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/archives/2011/08/04/real-names.html),
  danah boyd
- [A Case for Pseudonyms](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/07/case-pseudonyms),
  Jillian C. York, EFF
- [Change.org petition in support of Google Plus pseudonyms](https://www.change.org/p/google-inc-google-needs-to-allow-pseudonyms-on-services-like-google-for-anonymity)
- [Google+ and Diversity](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=2948), Jon Pincus
- [Who is harmed by a "Real Names" policy?](https://geekfeminism.fandom.com/wiki/Who_is_harmed_by_a_%22Real_Names%22_policy%3F),
  Geek Feminism Wiki
