hugo/content/blog/2007-07-08/index.md, before:

---
title: 'One minute for 1-800-GENOCIDE'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2007-07-08'
# lastmod: '2022-07-19' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'one-minute-1-800-genocide' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/070708'
description: 'Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide
  Intervention Network sent out today using Collactive, a web firm that helps
  organizations use their network of members to promote news stories and
  websites to larger audiences. In this case, we are asking our members to vote
  up an article on our anti-genocide hotline, 1-800-GENOCIDE.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide Intervention
  Network sent out today using Collactive, a web firm that helps organizations
  use their network of members to promote news stories and websites to larger
  audiences. In this case, we are asking our members to vote up an article on
  our anti-genocide hotline, 1-800-GENOCIDE.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

# featureImage: 'feature.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
# featureImageAlt: 'Description of image' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
# thumbnail: 'thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-07'
---

Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide Intervention Network
sent out today using
[Collactive](https://web.archive.org/web/20080701112343/http://collactive.com/),
a web firm that helps organizations use their network of members to promote news
stories and websites to larger audiences. You can see our action in the message
below, or by going to:

{{< deadlink "GenocideIntervention.net/OneMinute" "dl://www.GenocideIntervention.net/OneMinute" >}}

Prior to this action, we used Collactive twice to promote particular op-eds (one
in the _Boston Globe_ --
[here's a writeup](https://web.archive.org/web/20080303224037/http://www.collactive.com/success_ginet.html)
-- and one in the _LA Times_) that aligned with our positions on how to stop
genocide in Darfur. We had our members email the articles, via Collactive (which
steps you through the process), and quickly raised them to the "most emailed"
spot on the home page.

In the case of the _LA Times_ article, which was about the need for divestment
from Sudan, we had our members specifically email the article to a
vice-president at Fidelity, which has a lot of investments in Sudan-linked
business firms. So in that case, we got a two-for-one -- both raising awareness
of the issue and flooding a decisionmaker with an important column. You can read
more about these successes in
[our recent supporter newsletter](https://web.archive.org/web/20070702053010/http://genocideintervention.net/members/newsletter/index.php/2007-05/29/)
(see "The One Minute Action").

![1-800-GENOCIDE](1800genocide.jpg ' ')

In this case, we are asking our members to vote up an article on our
anti-genocide hotline,
[1-800-GENOCIDE](https://web.archive.org/web/20070210072326/http://www.1800genocide.com/),
on the social bookmarking website Reddit. We just sent this out a few hours ago,
so things are still developing. Collactive also has ways to focus your network's
power on YouTube videos, Digg articles and specific blog entries (for instance,
to flood a blog with positive or negative comments).

We have been pretty happy with Collactive so far; if anyone has any questions
about these campaigns I'd be happy to relate our experiences. If you're curious
about the 1-800-GENOCIDE initiative -- which guides callers through the process
of leaving messages for elected officials -- you can
[read more about the technology behind it](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708195323/http://1800genocide.com/technology.html).

And, if you get a chance, please
[vote for us on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit.com/comments/2420g/firstever_antigenocide_hotline_utilizes_old)!

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2007-07-08/index.md, after:

---
title: 'One minute for 1-800-GENOCIDE'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2007-07-08'
# lastmod: '2022-07-19' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'one-minute-1-800-genocide' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/070708'
description: 'Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide
  Intervention Network sent out today using Collactive, a web firm that helps
  organizations use their network of members to promote news stories and
  websites to larger audiences. In this case, we are asking our members to vote
  up an article on our anti-genocide hotline, 1-800-GENOCIDE.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide Intervention
  Network sent out today using Collactive, a web firm that helps organizations
  use their network of members to promote news stories and websites to larger
  audiences. In this case, we are asking our members to vote up an article on
  our anti-genocide hotline, 1-800-GENOCIDE.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

# featureImage: 'feature.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
# featureImageAlt: 'Description of image' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
# thumbnail: 'thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  -
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-07'
---

Just wanted to highlight a small initiative the Genocide Intervention Network
sent out today using
[Collactive](https://web.archive.org/web/20080701112343/http://collactive.com/),
a web firm that helps organizations use their network of members to promote news
stories and websites to larger audiences. You can see our action in the message
below, or by going to:

{{< deadlink "GenocideIntervention.net/OneMinute" "dl://www.GenocideIntervention.net/OneMinute" >}}

Prior to this action, we used Collactive twice to promote particular op-eds (one
in the _Boston Globe_ --
[here's a writeup](https://web.archive.org/web/20080303224037/http://www.collactive.com/success_ginet.html)
-- and one in the _LA Times_) that aligned with our positions on how to stop
genocide in Darfur. We had our members email the articles, via Collactive (which
steps you through the process), and quickly raised them to the "most emailed"
spot on the home page.

In the case of the _LA Times_ article, which was about the need for divestment
from Sudan, we had our members specifically email the article to a
vice-president at Fidelity, which has a lot of investments in Sudan-linked
business firms. So in that case, we got a two-for-one -- both raising awareness
of the issue and flooding a decisionmaker with an important column. You can read
more about these successes in
[our recent supporter newsletter](https://web.archive.org/web/20070702053010/http://genocideintervention.net/members/newsletter/index.php/2007-05/29/)
(see "The One Minute Action").

![1-800-GENOCIDE](1800genocide.jpg ' ')

In this case, we are asking our members to vote up an article on our
anti-genocide hotline,
[1-800-GENOCIDE](https://web.archive.org/web/20070210072326/http://www.1800genocide.com/),
on the social bookmarking website Reddit. We just sent this out a few hours ago,
so things are still developing. Collactive also has ways to focus your network's
power on YouTube videos, Digg articles and specific blog entries (for instance,
to flood a blog with positive or negative comments).

We have been pretty happy with Collactive so far; if anyone has any questions
about these campaigns I'd be happy to relate our experiences. If you're curious
about the 1-800-GENOCIDE initiative -- which guides callers through the process
of leaving messages for elected officials -- you can
[read more about the technology behind it](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708195323/http://1800genocide.com/technology.html).

And, if you get a chance, please
[vote for us on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/reddit.com/comments/2420g/firstever_antigenocide_hotline_utilizes_old)!
