hugo/content/blog/2007-04-06/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Notes from NTC: Participatory media and the future of online outreach'
author: ivan
date: '2007-04-06'
# lastmod: '2022-07-17' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'notes-ntc-participatory-media-future-online-outreach' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/070406

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Although these two panels -- "Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media" and
  "The Future of Online Outreach" -- were held separately at the 2007 Nonprofit
  Technology Conference, I thought that they related so well that I'd present
  them together.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Although "Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media" and "The Future of
  Online Outreach" were held separately, I thought that they related so well I'd
  report on them together.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'perth-run_flickr-ianhun2009.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Perth kilt run, 2013' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'ianhun2009'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'perth-run_flickr-ianhun2009.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - communications
  - YouTube
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-04'
---

Although these two panels were held separately at the
[Nonprofit Technology Conference 2007](https://web.archive.org/web/20070308071728/http://www.nten.org/ntc),
I thought that they related so well that I'd present them together.

**Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media**

- Colin Delany, [e.politics](https://www.epolitics.com/) (presentation slides
  and resources
  [available online](https://www.epolitics.com/2007/04/05/resources-for-n-ten-panel-on-socialparticipatory-media/))
- Michael Silberman,
  [EchoDitto](https://web.archive.org/web/20070701104529/http://www.echoditto.com/)

**The Future of Online Outreach**

- Marty Kearns and Ruby Sinreich,
  [Green Media Toolshed](https://web.archive.org/web/20070701171633/http://www.greenmediatoolshed.org/)
  (closely-related
  [essay](https://activist.blogs.com/networkcentricadvocacypaper.pdf) available
  on
  [Netcentric Campaigns](https://web.archive.org/web/20080124154123/http://www.netcentriccampaigns.org/))

Participatory media is a campaign that utilizes content created by the
users/members/visitors of the campaign -- and in may cases, this creation of
content is the campaign itself. **Colin** began by offering an example of a
participatory-media approach that had backfired for a corporation, the
anti-Chevy
[Chevy Tahoe ad](https://web.archive.org/web/20070531074727/http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3CVezHDxFuw).
(This ad campaign would also show up in **Marty**'s presentation.)

Colin pointed out that Chevy had decided to leave the ads online because they
had the effect of driving lots of traffic to the website -- thus turning a
negative backlash into a positive result. In his presentation, however, Marty
said there had been a significant drop in sales of the Tahoe the next quarter --
possibly due to the rise in gas prices, but possibly also due to this negative
publicity.

After recommending that campaigns engage in participatory media for the simple
reason that your users are doing it anyway (giving the example of the
"[vote different](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6h3G-lMZxjo)" video), Colin
outlined the basic motivations:

- engagement
- leveraging collective intelligence (Marty might call this being
  network-centric)
- publicity
- because they're there

Colin pointed out that email discussion lists and fora were a basic form of
user-generated content. Beyond that lay blogs, then video and photographs,
altered images, stories, social networking projects and "ideas" themselves.

There are several levels of engagement possible with participatory media:

- observation (one-way, receiving information)
- interaction (responding with information, as in a blog comment)
- contribution (creating information, as in posting a blog)
- solicitation (asking others to create information in response to yours, as in
  a video response or a contest)

A prime example of participatory media that Colin gave was Late Night with Conan
O'Brien's
[HornyManatee.com](https://web.archive.org/web/20070705204729/http://www.hornymanatee.com/).
The site solicits hot manatee action from its users,
[to great effect](https://web.archive.org/web/20070127151216/http://www.hornymanatee.com:80/fan_art/8017.shtml).

**Michael** then took the helm, demonstrating two participatory media campaigns
EchoDitto had worked on (which coincidentally both
[won awards](https://web.archive.org/web/20071028185218/http://www.echoditto.com/node/1063)):
[Since Sliced Bread](https://web.archive.org/web/20070719052759/http://www.sinceslicedbread.com/)
and the
[Pearl Harbor Survivors Project](https://web.archive.org/web/20070630001236/http://www.pearlharborstories.org/).

For the Survivors Project, Michael talked about the strategizing they had done
in order to collect the stories of the several-hundred remaining survivors of
the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. They had set up a toll-free number so that
technologically-challenged seniors wouldn't have to interface with the website,
but to their surprise that was the primary mode of submission. In another twist,
they established a MySpace profile not expecting much response from a youthful
crowd, but soon went on to find 20,000 friend requests.

Michael pointed out that the nature of participatory media was still new enough
that it is able to earn media for the organization -- the Survivors Project
really took off after a feature in Parade. The very existence of the campaign
was a news story, in a way a traditional museum-style exhibit on Pearl Harbor
would not be.

As for Since Sliced Bread, Michael explained that it was an attempt by
[SEIU](https://seiu.org/) president Andy Stern to solicit ideas directly from
workers, because he felt like DC lobbyists and consultants working on labor
issues weren't concerned with the real issues facing his union members.

Users were thus invited to submit their best ideas Since Sliced Bread, with the
[winner](https://web.archive.org/web/20070719053813/http://www.sinceslicedbread.com/idea/9602)
receiving a prize of $100,000 and runners-up receiving money as well. The
project had what Michael called "a panel of sort-of celebrities" which narrowed
the tens-of-thousands of entries to a slate of 21 finalists. The community then
voted on the winners from those 21.

Michael talked about the issues confronted by the team when losers in the
contest turned against the site -- a much higher volume of nasty blog comments,
to the point that the blog became de-emphasized on the site to try to remove the
flashpoint. The site also generated some serious victories as well, including
the winning project going on to being approved by voters in a Washington state
ballot initiative.

In the question-and-answer period, numerous participatory media campaigns were
offered, including the March of Dimes'
[Share Your Story](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717211439/http://www.shareyourstory.org/)
and the
[Picture the Cure](https://web.archive.org/web/20070610082243/http://picturethecure.ca/)
(cached copy, site seems down) initiative for the Canadian Cancer Society.
**Alan Rosenblatt** said
[Care2](https://web.archive.org/web/20070706210219/http://www.care2.com/) had
done a study demonstrating that people who participated in discussion fora were
74% more likely to take action.

### On to the second session!

**Marty** began by making the argument that the differences in social networks
(connections) today -- aptly covered by
[David Weinberger](https://web.archive.org/web/20081205054343/netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/notes-ntc-keynote-david-weinberger)
earlier in the day -- should necessarily change the way we go about social
organizing. It is not as much about building individual leadership or
organizational capacity, he said, but about making strong and effective
connections.

In other words, what would your organization do with 10,000 people for ten
minutes?

Most people today are under a barrage of information. When the FCC's
"[Do Not Call](https://www.donotcall.gov/)" list was launched, 50 million people
signed up in just a few weeks -- without any advertising whatsoever. These
people have "walked away from the current models of civic engagement." They
don't sign up for email lists because they're afraid of ever getting off -- a
barrier to exit becomes a barrier to entry.

Network-centric advocacy focuses not only on the individual or organization, but
more importantly on the network "as a mechanism for exerting influence." Recent
political examples of this include the Gray Davis recall campaign, the Howard
Dean presidential campaign, and the
[Network for Justice Against the Death Penalty](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708232229/http://www.networkforjustice.org/partners/New_Yorkers_Against_The_Death_Penalty)
campaign, which used an innovative evite.com-style model for encouraging people
to encourage their friends to sign up (and publicly display the results). A more
visual example is
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20070714124801/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/),
recently deployed by the Oxygen network in
[Oh! Speakup!](https://web.archive.org/web/20070716232054/http://speakup.oxygen.com/campaigns/womensrights/).

A strong network depends on five key components, according to Marty:

- _strong social ties_ that become a "tangible, measured and carefully
  cultivated strategic asset" for organizers
- _a common story_ that allows the core actors to understand each other
- _a communications grid_ that allows for one-to-one, one-to-many and
  many-to-many conversations, including self-segmentation
- _shared resources_ for coordinated tasks
- _clarity of purpose_ and given the context to refine this purpose

What networks are particularly good at are:

- connecting ([eBay](https://www.ebay.com/))
- sequencing ([SETI@Home](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SETI@home))
- synchronizing ([flash mobs](https://smartmobs.com/book-summary/))
- distributing (viral news)

Additional examples given were MoveOn.org's
[Bush in 30 Seconds](https://web.archive.org/web/20070709151254/http://bushin30seconds.org/)
and the unaffiliated
[Congress in 30 Seconds](https://web.archive.org/web/20070625065450/http://www.congressin30seconds.com/)
-- both participatory media campaigns!

The session closed with time for people to meet in small groups and discuss
network-centric advocacy in the context of their own organizaitons.

With that, I'll leave you with a quote from Marty: "Networks are
leader<em>ful</em> and boss<em>less</em>."

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2007-04-06/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Notes from NTC: Participatory media and the future of online outreach'
author: ivan
date: '2007-04-06'
# lastmod: '2022-07-17' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'notes-ntc-participatory-media-future-online-outreach' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/070406

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Although these two panels -- "Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media" and
  "The Future of Online Outreach" -- were held separately at the 2007 Nonprofit
  Technology Conference, I thought that they related so well that I'd present
  them together.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Although "Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media" and "The Future of
  Online Outreach" were held separately, I thought that they related so well I'd
  report on them together.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'perth-run_flickr-ianhun2009.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Perth kilt run, 2013' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'ianhun2009'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'perth-run_flickr-ianhun2009.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - communications
  - YouTube
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-04'
---

Although these two panels were held separately at the
[Nonprofit Technology Conference 2007](https://web.archive.org/web/20070308071728/http://www.nten.org/ntc),
I thought that they related so well that I'd present them together.

**Leveraging the Power of Participatory Media**

- Colin Delany, [e.politics](https://www.epolitics.com/) (presentation slides
  and resources
  [available online](https://www.epolitics.com/2007/04/05/resources-for-n-ten-panel-on-socialparticipatory-media/))
- Michael Silberman,
  [EchoDitto](https://web.archive.org/web/20070701104529/http://www.echoditto.com/)

**The Future of Online Outreach**

- Marty Kearns and Ruby Sinreich,
  [Green Media Toolshed](https://web.archive.org/web/20070701171633/http://www.greenmediatoolshed.org/)
  (closely-related
  [essay](https://activist.blogs.com/networkcentricadvocacypaper.pdf) available
  on
  [Netcentric Campaigns](https://web.archive.org/web/20080124154123/http://www.netcentriccampaigns.org/))

Participatory media is a campaign that utilizes content created by the
users/members/visitors of the campaign -- and in may cases, this creation of
content is the campaign itself. **Colin** began by offering an example of a
participatory-media approach that had backfired for a corporation, the
anti-Chevy
[Chevy Tahoe ad](https://web.archive.org/web/20070531074727/http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3CVezHDxFuw).
(This ad campaign would also show up in **Marty**'s presentation.)

Colin pointed out that Chevy had decided to leave the ads online because they
had the effect of driving lots of traffic to the website -- thus turning a
negative backlash into a positive result. In his presentation, however, Marty
said there had been a significant drop in sales of the Tahoe the next quarter --
possibly due to the rise in gas prices, but possibly also due to this negative
publicity.

After recommending that campaigns engage in participatory media for the simple
reason that your users are doing it anyway (giving the example of the
"[vote different](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6h3G-lMZxjo)" video), Colin
outlined the basic motivations:

- engagement
- leveraging collective intelligence (Marty might call this being
  network-centric)
- publicity
- because they're there

Colin pointed out that email discussion lists and fora were a basic form of
user-generated content. Beyond that lay blogs, then video and photographs,
altered images, stories, social networking projects and "ideas" themselves.

There are several levels of engagement possible with participatory media:

- observation (one-way, receiving information)
- interaction (responding with information, as in a blog comment)
- contribution (creating information, as in posting a blog)
- solicitation (asking others to create information in response to yours, as in
  a video response or a contest)

A prime example of participatory media that Colin gave was Late Night with Conan
O'Brien's
[HornyManatee.com](https://web.archive.org/web/20070705204729/http://www.hornymanatee.com/).
The site solicits hot manatee action from its users,
[to great effect](https://web.archive.org/web/20070127151216/http://www.hornymanatee.com:80/fan_art/8017.shtml).

**Michael** then took the helm, demonstrating two participatory media campaigns
EchoDitto had worked on (which coincidentally both
[won awards](https://web.archive.org/web/20071028185218/http://www.echoditto.com/node/1063)):
[Since Sliced Bread](https://web.archive.org/web/20070719052759/http://www.sinceslicedbread.com/)
and the
[Pearl Harbor Survivors Project](https://web.archive.org/web/20070630001236/http://www.pearlharborstories.org/).

For the Survivors Project, Michael talked about the strategizing they had done
in order to collect the stories of the several-hundred remaining survivors of
the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. They had set up a toll-free number so that
technologically-challenged seniors wouldn't have to interface with the website,
but to their surprise that was the primary mode of submission. In another twist,
they established a MySpace profile not expecting much response from a youthful
crowd, but soon went on to find 20,000 friend requests.

Michael pointed out that the nature of participatory media was still new enough
that it is able to earn media for the organization -- the Survivors Project
really took off after a feature in Parade. The very existence of the campaign
was a news story, in a way a traditional museum-style exhibit on Pearl Harbor
would not be.

As for Since Sliced Bread, Michael explained that it was an attempt by
[SEIU](https://seiu.org/) president Andy Stern to solicit ideas directly from
workers, because he felt like DC lobbyists and consultants working on labor
issues weren't concerned with the real issues facing his union members.

Users were thus invited to submit their best ideas Since Sliced Bread, with the
[winner](https://web.archive.org/web/20070719053813/http://www.sinceslicedbread.com/idea/9602)
receiving a prize of $100,000 and runners-up receiving money as well. The
project had what Michael called "a panel of sort-of celebrities" which narrowed
the tens-of-thousands of entries to a slate of 21 finalists. The community then
voted on the winners from those 21.

Michael talked about the issues confronted by the team when losers in the
contest turned against the site -- a much higher volume of nasty blog comments,
to the point that the blog became de-emphasized on the site to try to remove the
flashpoint. The site also generated some serious victories as well, including
the winning project going on to being approved by voters in a Washington state
ballot initiative.

In the question-and-answer period, numerous participatory media campaigns were
offered, including the March of Dimes'
[Share Your Story](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717211439/http://www.shareyourstory.org/)
and the
[Picture the Cure](https://web.archive.org/web/20070610082243/http://picturethecure.ca/)
(cached copy, site seems down) initiative for the Canadian Cancer Society.
**Alan Rosenblatt** said
[Care2](https://web.archive.org/web/20070706210219/http://www.care2.com/) had
done a study demonstrating that people who participated in discussion fora were
74% more likely to take action.

### On to the second session!

**Marty** began by making the argument that the differences in social networks
(connections) today -- aptly covered by
[David Weinberger](https://web.archive.org/web/20081205054343/netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/notes-ntc-keynote-david-weinberger)
earlier in the day -- should necessarily change the way we go about social
organizing. It is not as much about building individual leadership or
organizational capacity, he said, but about making strong and effective
connections.

In other words, what would your organization do with 10,000 people for ten
minutes?

Most people today are under a barrage of information. When the FCC's
"[Do Not Call](https://www.donotcall.gov/)" list was launched, 50 million people
signed up in just a few weeks -- without any advertising whatsoever. These
people have "walked away from the current models of civic engagement." They
don't sign up for email lists because they're afraid of ever getting off -- a
barrier to exit becomes a barrier to entry.

Network-centric advocacy focuses not only on the individual or organization, but
more importantly on the network "as a mechanism for exerting influence." Recent
political examples of this include the Gray Davis recall campaign, the Howard
Dean presidential campaign, and the
[Network for Justice Against the Death Penalty](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708232229/http://www.networkforjustice.org/partners/New_Yorkers_Against_The_Death_Penalty)
campaign, which used an innovative evite.com-style model for encouraging people
to encourage their friends to sign up (and publicly display the results). A more
visual example is
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20070714124801/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/),
recently deployed by the Oxygen network in
[Oh! Speakup!](https://web.archive.org/web/20070716232054/http://speakup.oxygen.com/campaigns/womensrights/).

A strong network depends on five key components, according to Marty:

- _strong social ties_ that become a "tangible, measured and carefully
  cultivated strategic asset" for organizers
- _a common story_ that allows the core actors to understand each other
- _a communications grid_ that allows for one-to-one, one-to-many and
  many-to-many conversations, including self-segmentation
- _shared resources_ for coordinated tasks
- _clarity of purpose_ and given the context to refine this purpose

What networks are particularly good at are:

- connecting ([eBay](https://www.ebay.com/))
- sequencing ([SETI@Home](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SETI@home))
- synchronizing ([flash mobs](https://smartmobs.com/book-summary/))
- distributing (viral news)

Additional examples given were MoveOn.org's
[Bush in 30 Seconds](https://web.archive.org/web/20070709151254/http://bushin30seconds.org/)
and the unaffiliated
[Congress in 30 Seconds](https://web.archive.org/web/20070625065450/http://www.congressin30seconds.com/)
-- both participatory media campaigns!

The session closed with time for people to meet in small groups and discuss
network-centric advocacy in the context of their own organizaitons.

With that, I'll leave you with a quote from Marty: "Networks are
leader<em>ful</em> and boss<em>less</em>."
