hugo/content/blog/2013-04-12/index.md, before:

---
title:
  'Uncharitable: How businesses co-opt nonprofits and undermine their potential'
author: ivan
date: '2013-04-12'
# lastmod: 2022-07-11 # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'uncharitable-how-businesses-co-opt-nonprofits-undermine-their-potential' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/130412

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  It's no wonder Dan Pallotta is so popular among the TED crowd -- business
  leaders and wealthy technologists who can see a product in every social trend.
  What's more mystifying is why he would be popular among nonprofits, activists,
  and social changemakers, because it's clear he has no substantive message for
  them.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  It's no wonder Dan Pallotta is so popular among the TED crowd. What's more
  mystifying is why he would be popular among nonprofits, activists, and social
  changemakers -- because it's clear he has no substantive message for them.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: true
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'capitalism-crisis_flickr-beckytappin.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Banner: Capitalism is crisis' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'beckytappin'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'capitalism-crisis_flickr-beckytappin.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  - capitalism

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-04'
---

Dan Pallotta, who presented the TED talk,
"[The way we think about charity is dead wrong](https://www.ted.com/talks/dan_pallotta_the_way_we_think_about_charity_is_dead_wrong),"
spoke at the [Nonprofit Technology Conference](https://www.nten.org/ntc/) this
morning.

His arguments, which are not particularly new, are that nonprofits are under
restraints -- some culturally, and some self-imposed -- that limit their
potential. If only charities were run more like businesses, he says -- with high
executive pay and less belief in large "overhead" being a stand-in for
inefficiency -- they'd be able to do more.

**Dan follows in the long tradition of successful businessmen (it's almost
always men) arriving on the nonprofit scene talking loudly and listening
rarely.**

His ideas are wrong almost by design, because Dan isn't interested in making
nonprofits more powerful; he's interested in making society more receptive to
unrestrained business -- nonprofits, in this case, are merely a proxy.

> "**He is not a credible defender of nonprofits** because he doesn't seem to
> really care for them. He appears not to grasp the notion that markets
> fail--and that one of nonprofits' primary roles is to address those failures,
> not mimic corporations. He has consistently disparaged nonprofits. In a
> _Harvard Business Review_ blog, he wrote that he'd be hard pressed to think of
> any business that wasn't making more of a positive difference in society than
> nonprofits."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

> "**Just as he makes a fetish out of unrestrained capitalism**, he makes a
> fetish out of cash over other means of securing happiness and satisfaction at
> work. How insulting to think that, if we make less pay than our for profit
> counterparts, we must be less creative, talented, intelligent and less capable
> of helping others."
>
> --
> [Ken Berger](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.kenscommentary.org/2011/02/uncharitable-webinar-2-1-11.html),
> Charity Navigator

**The entire approach is based on the scarcity-model, zero-sum game that people
like to play with charities.** In the past I've referred to this as
[nonprofit deathmatch](/blog/2010/12/google-chrome-cause-or-nonprofit-deathmatch-strikes-again).

Yet lots of research has shown people who donate once are
[more likely](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.articlesbase.com/non-profit-organizations-articles/the-16-principles-of-personal-fundraising-influence-5204143.html)
to {{< deadlink "donate" "dl://groups.yahoo.com/group/NARCDC/message/5757" >}}
{{< deadlink "again" "dls://twitter.com/MollyZerener/status/121363610214739968" >}},
even to other organizations in the same field -- it's why some nonprofits sell
their lists. And the same principle is at work with advocacy:
[get people interested](https://joymayer.com/2010/10/01/the-nonprofit-worlds-ladder-of-engagement/)
and they'll [keep](https://bethkanter.org/tweet-huggers/)
[taking](https://www.nonprofitmarketingguide.com/chucking-the-ladder-of-engagement/)
[action](http://groundwire.org/blog/groundwire-engagement-pyramid/).

**Getting away from the scarcity model allows organizations to
[build movements](https://web.archive.org/web/20130812124615/http://e.myntc.zerista.com/event/member/65121)
instead of just lists.**

It's not suprising that his views are so limited when he consistently groups all
organizations into "nonprofits" or "charities" without recognizing the huge
differences among them.

Service organizations have very different goals from advocacy-based
organizations, to say nothing of institutional nonprofits like universities,
hospitals and museums. But they're all just the "nonprofit sector" to him.

> "**To Mr. Pallotta, it's the total amount of funds raised that is the ultimate
> measure.** His defense of CEO pay justifies compensation in the context of
> revenue, apparently assuming that a charity that has more money will
> inevitably get better results."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

> "**Myth #1: There are $400,000 talents.** The first falsehood is that there
> are people who are just worth more. Defending wide
> [inequality](https://www.oecd.org/els/soc/growingunequalincomedistributionandpovertyinoecdcountries.htm)
> relies upon the notion that some people are worth much more, based on
> training, ability, or certain special qualities. This notion makes inequality
> appear legitimate to people at all levels, and thereby harder to redress. The
> use of the phrase 'low-wage worker,' instead of 'worker who is paid a low
> wage,' hints at a peculiarly American sleight of hand: Someone's place in the
> wage structure is an indicator of their true merit."
>
> --
> [Michelle Kweder, Gerald Denis, and Maureen Scully](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/persistent_poverty_in_a_smug_meritocracy),
> Stanford Social Innovation Review

**Dan also has little use for any vision of social change, or any apparent
understanding of social movements**, since none that could be called successful
have in any way fit his vision. Because Dan's vision isn't one of social change,
it's one of a perpetuation of wealth, with nonprofits simply one more business
sector in which to advertise.

> .@[danpalotta](https://twitter.com/danpalotta) The ? I have is, **why should
> NPOs be more like biz**? Isn't what's necessary to change the game, not make
> more of the same? [#13NTC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live)
>
> -- Jenn Yoo (@jooy8)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/jooy8/status/322734500226412544)

> "He makes more references to Steve Jobs, Apple, and its products--the index
> lists seven, though I counted more--in Charity Case than to any nonprofit
> organization. Yet he says **he is rising to the defense of nonprofits:
> comparing the 'movement' he seeks to lead to the civil-rights movement**."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

Capitalism isn't the solution. It's the problem, and many of us are fighting it.

> **Capitalism created inequalities**, but we won't let NPOs use capitalist
> tools to address them--missing a logical step?
> [#13ntc](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live)
>
> -- Jenn Yoo (@jooy8)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/jooy8/status/322715055185592320)

> "[A] theme in the book is Dan's **idealization of capitalism almost as a God**
> that can lead to self fulfillment and 'stunning change' through the wonderful
> motive of personal gain."
>
> --
> [Ken Berger](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.kenscommentary.org/2011/02/uncharitable-webinar-2-1-11.html),
> Charity Navigator

> [#13NTC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live) Lots to agree with in
> Dan Palotta's plenary, but **as an anti-capitalist I want to destroy the
> system**, not compete w/it.
>
> -- Laura Shapiro (@laurajshapiro)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/laurajshapiro/status/322724877721300994)

> "**He co-opts our national conversation about income inequality to advance his
> goals and the goals of a socio-economic elite that is content to believe in
> meritocracy and their own meritoriousness.** We argue that it is misguided to
> base the pay of executives in inequality-alleviating nonprofits on ideological
> myths that have done much to reproduce and legitimate inequality."
>
> --
> [Michelle Kweder, Gerald Denis, and Maureen Scully](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/persistent_poverty_in_a_smug_meritocracy),
> Stanford Social Innovation Review

It's no wonder Dan is so popular among the TED crowd -- business leaders and
wealthy technologists who can see a product in every social trend.

**What's more mystifying is why Dan Pallotta would be popular among nonprofits,
activists, and social changemakers. It's clear Dan has no substantive message
for them.**

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2013-04-12/index.md, after:

---
title:
  'Uncharitable: How businesses co-opt nonprofits and undermine their potential'
author: ivan
date: '2013-04-12'
# lastmod: 2022-07-11 # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'uncharitable-how-businesses-co-opt-nonprofits-undermine-their-potential' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/130412

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  It's no wonder Dan Pallotta is so popular among the TED crowd -- business
  leaders and wealthy technologists who can see a product in every social trend.
  What's more mystifying is why he would be popular among nonprofits, activists,
  and social changemakers, because it's clear he has no substantive message for
  them.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  It's no wonder Dan Pallotta is so popular among the TED crowd. What's more
  mystifying is why he would be popular among nonprofits, activists, and social
  changemakers -- because it's clear he has no substantive message for them.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: true
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'capitalism-crisis_flickr-beckytappin.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Banner: Capitalism is crisis' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'beckytappin'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'capitalism-crisis_flickr-beckytappin.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  - capitalism

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-04'
---

Dan Pallotta, who presented the TED talk,
"[The way we think about charity is dead wrong](https://www.ted.com/talks/dan_pallotta_the_way_we_think_about_charity_is_dead_wrong),"
spoke at the [Nonprofit Technology Conference](https://www.nten.org/ntc/) this
morning.

His arguments, which are not particularly new, are that nonprofits are under
restraints -- some culturally, and some self-imposed -- that limit their
potential. If only charities were run more like businesses, he says -- with high
executive pay and less belief in large "overhead" being a stand-in for
inefficiency -- they'd be able to do more.

**Dan follows in the long tradition of successful businessmen (it's almost
always men) arriving on the nonprofit scene talking loudly and listening
rarely.**

His ideas are wrong almost by design, because Dan isn't interested in making
nonprofits more powerful; he's interested in making society more receptive to
unrestrained business -- nonprofits, in this case, are merely a proxy.

> "**He is not a credible defender of nonprofits** because he doesn't seem to
> really care for them. He appears not to grasp the notion that markets
> fail--and that one of nonprofits' primary roles is to address those failures,
> not mimic corporations. He has consistently disparaged nonprofits. In a
> _Harvard Business Review_ blog, he wrote that he'd be hard pressed to think of
> any business that wasn't making more of a positive difference in society than
> nonprofits."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

> "**Just as he makes a fetish out of unrestrained capitalism**, he makes a
> fetish out of cash over other means of securing happiness and satisfaction at
> work. How insulting to think that, if we make less pay than our for profit
> counterparts, we must be less creative, talented, intelligent and less capable
> of helping others."
>
> --
> [Ken Berger](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.kenscommentary.org/2011/02/uncharitable-webinar-2-1-11.html),
> Charity Navigator

**The entire approach is based on the scarcity-model, zero-sum game that people
like to play with charities.** In the past I've referred to this as
[nonprofit deathmatch](/blog/2010/12/google-chrome-cause-or-nonprofit-deathmatch-strikes-again).

Yet lots of research has shown people who donate once are
[more likely](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.articlesbase.com/non-profit-organizations-articles/the-16-principles-of-personal-fundraising-influence-5204143.html)
to {{< deadlink "donate" "dl://groups.yahoo.com/group/NARCDC/message/5757" >}}
{{< deadlink "again" "dls://twitter.com/MollyZerener/status/121363610214739968" >}},
even to other organizations in the same field -- it's why some nonprofits sell
their lists. And the same principle is at work with advocacy:
[get people interested](https://joymayer.com/2010/10/01/the-nonprofit-worlds-ladder-of-engagement/)
and they'll [keep](https://bethkanter.org/tweet-huggers/)
[taking](https://www.nonprofitmarketingguide.com/chucking-the-ladder-of-engagement/)
[action](http://groundwire.org/blog/groundwire-engagement-pyramid/).

**Getting away from the scarcity model allows organizations to
[build movements](https://web.archive.org/web/20130812124615/http://e.myntc.zerista.com/event/member/65121)
instead of just lists.**

It's not suprising that his views are so limited when he consistently groups all
organizations into "nonprofits" or "charities" without recognizing the huge
differences among them.

Service organizations have very different goals from advocacy-based
organizations, to say nothing of institutional nonprofits like universities,
hospitals and museums. But they're all just the "nonprofit sector" to him.

> "**To Mr. Pallotta, it's the total amount of funds raised that is the ultimate
> measure.** His defense of CEO pay justifies compensation in the context of
> revenue, apparently assuming that a charity that has more money will
> inevitably get better results."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

> "**Myth #1: There are $400,000 talents.** The first falsehood is that there
> are people who are just worth more. Defending wide
> [inequality](https://www.oecd.org/els/soc/growingunequalincomedistributionandpovertyinoecdcountries.htm)
> relies upon the notion that some people are worth much more, based on
> training, ability, or certain special qualities. This notion makes inequality
> appear legitimate to people at all levels, and thereby harder to redress. The
> use of the phrase 'low-wage worker,' instead of 'worker who is paid a low
> wage,' hints at a peculiarly American sleight of hand: Someone's place in the
> wage structure is an indicator of their true merit."
>
> --
> [Michelle Kweder, Gerald Denis, and Maureen Scully](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/persistent_poverty_in_a_smug_meritocracy),
> Stanford Social Innovation Review

**Dan also has little use for any vision of social change, or any apparent
understanding of social movements**, since none that could be called successful
have in any way fit his vision. Because Dan's vision isn't one of social change,
it's one of a perpetuation of wealth, with nonprofits simply one more business
sector in which to advertise.

> .@[danpalotta](https://twitter.com/danpalotta) The ? I have is, **why should
> NPOs be more like biz**? Isn't what's necessary to change the game, not make
> more of the same? [#13NTC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live)
>
> -- Jenn Yoo (@jooy8)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/jooy8/status/322734500226412544)

> "He makes more references to Steve Jobs, Apple, and its products--the index
> lists seven, though I counted more--in Charity Case than to any nonprofit
> organization. Yet he says **he is rising to the defense of nonprofits:
> comparing the 'movement' he seeks to lead to the civil-rights movement**."
>
> --
> [Phil Buchanan](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/nonprofits-need-a-stronger-voice-but-not-from-the-wrong-messenger/),
> _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_

Capitalism isn't the solution. It's the problem, and many of us are fighting it.

> **Capitalism created inequalities**, but we won't let NPOs use capitalist
> tools to address them--missing a logical step?
> [#13ntc](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live)
>
> -- Jenn Yoo (@jooy8)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/jooy8/status/322715055185592320)

> "[A] theme in the book is Dan's **idealization of capitalism almost as a God**
> that can lead to self fulfillment and 'stunning change' through the wonderful
> motive of personal gain."
>
> --
> [Ken Berger](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911224753/http://www.kenscommentary.org/2011/02/uncharitable-webinar-2-1-11.html),
> Charity Navigator

> [#13NTC](https://twitter.com/search?q=%252313NTC&f=live) Lots to agree with in
> Dan Palotta's plenary, but **as an anti-capitalist I want to destroy the
> system**, not compete w/it.
>
> -- Laura Shapiro (@laurajshapiro)
> [April 12, 2013](https://twitter.com/laurajshapiro/status/322724877721300994)

> "**He co-opts our national conversation about income inequality to advance his
> goals and the goals of a socio-economic elite that is content to believe in
> meritocracy and their own meritoriousness.** We argue that it is misguided to
> base the pay of executives in inequality-alleviating nonprofits on ideological
> myths that have done much to reproduce and legitimate inequality."
>
> --
> [Michelle Kweder, Gerald Denis, and Maureen Scully](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/persistent_poverty_in_a_smug_meritocracy),
> Stanford Social Innovation Review

It's no wonder Dan is so popular among the TED crowd -- business leaders and
wealthy technologists who can see a product in every social trend.

**What's more mystifying is why Dan Pallotta would be popular among nonprofits,
activists, and social changemakers. It's clear Dan has no substantive message
for them.**
