hugo/content/blog/2008-03-28/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Genocide Intervention Network nominated for NetSquared mashup award'
author: ivan
date: '2008-03-28'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'genocide-intervention-network-nominated-netsquared-mashup-award' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/080328

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  This week, the Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by
  the NetSquared community as a 2008 Featured Project for our proposal to
  upgrade and extend the DarfurScores.org website. Thank you to everyone who
  offered your support!

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by the
  NetSquared community as a 2008 Featured Project for our proposal to upgrade
  and extend the DarfurScores.org website.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'capitol_flickr-kevin_burkett.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'DarfurScores.org' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [Kevin
  Burkett](https://www.flickr.com/photos/24514780@N02).'
thumbnail: 'capitol_flickr-kevin_burkett.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-03'
---

![DarfurScores.org](darfurscores.png)

This week, the Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by the
NetSquared community as a
[2008 Featured Project](https://web.archive.org/web/20080308231814/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference)
for our proposal to
[upgrade and extend the DarfurScores.org website](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university):

> The Genocide Intervention Network seeks to create a new website, modeled on
> our successful Darfur congressional scorecard,
> **[DarfurScores.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708201835/http://www.darfurscores.org/)**,
> tentatively named GenocideScores.org.

![NetSquared Featured Project ::legacy-float-r](n2y3-featured-project.jpg)Our
current plan for the site -- which could change as we explore different options
and hear feedback from our members -- has four main components:

- **Collecting together anti-genocide data**, not only on Darfur but on each of
  our
  [areas of concern](https://web.archive.org/web/20080614191436/http://www.genocideintervention.net:80/educate/crisis/overview).
  Instead of being limited to only legislative records, each state would list
  its status on other anti-genocide initiatives like
  [Sudan divestment](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724095105/http://sudandivestment.org/)
  and
  [genocide education](https://web.archive.org/web/20080320063747/http://www.teachagainstgenocide.org:80/).
- **Provide clear illustrations of legislative status.** Instead of just hearing
  about a bill when a member of Congress does (or doesn't) vote for it, we'll be
  tracking bills as they move through each chamber.
- **Cross-index a bill's status with a member's location.** When the latest bill
  on genocide prevention is up for a vote, anti-genocide activists whose members
  of Congress represent key votes on the legislation will be able to receive
  automatic alerts.
- **Provide embeddable badges or widgets for activists to place on their
  profiles, blogs or websites.** At a glance, both you and visitors to your
  website, blog or social networking profile will be able to see how your state
  and legislators are doing on the question of genocide. And when urgent action
  is needed, these badges will be automatically updated with a special link to
  take action.

**Now, we want your feedback. If you have a chance,
[read through our proposal for DarfurScores.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university)
and leave a comment** -- tell us what you like, what you think could be changed,
what we're overlooking.

Remember that this is all about our core mission: **empowering individuals and
communities with the tools to prevent and stop genocide.**

We hope this project will result in a valuable new tool, and we'd love to have
your input!

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2008-03-28/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Genocide Intervention Network nominated for NetSquared mashup award'
author: ivan
date: '2008-03-28'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'genocide-intervention-network-nominated-netsquared-mashup-award' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/080328

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  This week, the Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by
  the NetSquared community as a 2008 Featured Project for our proposal to
  upgrade and extend the DarfurScores.org website. Thank you to everyone who
  offered your support!

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  The Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by the
  NetSquared community as a 2008 Featured Project for our proposal to upgrade
  and extend the DarfurScores.org website.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'capitol_flickr-kevin_burkett.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'DarfurScores.org' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [Kevin
  Burkett](https://www.flickr.com/photos/24514780@N02).'
thumbnail: 'capitol_flickr-kevin_burkett.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-03'
---

![DarfurScores.org](darfurscores.png)

This week, the Genocide Intervention Network was honored to be nominated by the
NetSquared community as a
[2008 Featured Project](https://web.archive.org/web/20080308231814/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference)
for our proposal to
[upgrade and extend the DarfurScores.org website](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university):

> The Genocide Intervention Network seeks to create a new website, modeled on
> our successful Darfur congressional scorecard,
> **[DarfurScores.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708201835/http://www.darfurscores.org/)**,
> tentatively named GenocideScores.org.

![NetSquared Featured Project ::legacy-float-r](n2y3-featured-project.jpg)Our
current plan for the site -- which could change as we explore different options
and hear feedback from our members -- has four main components:

- **Collecting together anti-genocide data**, not only on Darfur but on each of
  our
  [areas of concern](https://web.archive.org/web/20080614191436/http://www.genocideintervention.net:80/educate/crisis/overview).
  Instead of being limited to only legislative records, each state would list
  its status on other anti-genocide initiatives like
  [Sudan divestment](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724095105/http://sudandivestment.org/)
  and
  [genocide education](https://web.archive.org/web/20080320063747/http://www.teachagainstgenocide.org:80/).
- **Provide clear illustrations of legislative status.** Instead of just hearing
  about a bill when a member of Congress does (or doesn't) vote for it, we'll be
  tracking bills as they move through each chamber.
- **Cross-index a bill's status with a member's location.** When the latest bill
  on genocide prevention is up for a vote, anti-genocide activists whose members
  of Congress represent key votes on the legislation will be able to receive
  automatic alerts.
- **Provide embeddable badges or widgets for activists to place on their
  profiles, blogs or websites.** At a glance, both you and visitors to your
  website, blog or social networking profile will be able to see how your state
  and legislators are doing on the question of genocide. And when urgent action
  is needed, these badges will be automatically updated with a special link to
  take action.

**Now, we want your feedback. If you have a chance,
[read through our proposal for DarfurScores.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university)
and leave a comment** -- tell us what you like, what you think could be changed,
what we're overlooking.

Remember that this is all about our core mission: **empowering individuals and
communities with the tools to prevent and stop genocide.**

We hope this project will result in a valuable new tool, and we'd love to have
your input!
