hugo/content/blog/2013-02-27/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Free Drupal Q&A call for nonprofits and social change tomorrow, Feb. 28'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2013-02-27'
# lastmod: 2022-07-12 # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'free-drupal-qa-call-nonprofits-social-change-tomorrow-feb-28' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/130227'
description: 'Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific, Johanna Bates and I will be
  co-hosting the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and
  Q&A call. This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit
  Technology Network (NTEN) but open to anyone. Please join us!' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific, Johanna Bates and I will be
  co-hosting the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and
  Q&A call. This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit
  Technology Network (NTEN) but open to anyone. Please join us!' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'drupal-nonprofit-summit_flickr-sillygwailo_header.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'The Drupal Nonprofit Summit' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'sillygwailo'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'drupal-nonprofit-summit_flickr-sillygwailo_header.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - nptech
  - nonprofit technology
  - Drupal

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-02'
---

Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific,
[Johanna Bates](https://devcollaborative.com/about-us) and I will be co-hosting
the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and Q&A call.

**This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit Technology Network
(NTEN) but open to anyone.
[Please join us!](https://groups.drupal.org/node/283848)**

### What will we talk about?

This is a time to chat informally with other nonprofit-tech Drupalists — an open
Q&A discussion for anyone with or in nonprofits or social change groups using
Drupal. But generally speaking:

- Stuck on something? Have a question? Drupal experts will be on hand to answer
  questions. (No question is too basic. Really.)
- Psyched about a module or a Drupal event? Come tell us about it on the call!
- What’s happening with Drupal 8? Some of us know stuff. Join us, let’s chat
  about it.

**We’re open to questions or topic suggestions ahead of time — just leave a
comment below or message me on Twitter
[@rootwork](https://twitter.com/rootwork).**

Johanna and I will take collaborative notes on the call
([notes from January’s discussion are here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_D3_YPJv1tMFzicfgnM6N0xTn86wGGSe5cxmSEbnLdg/edit))
so if you can’t make it just let us know if you’d like a link to the notes.

### Join the call!

On Thursday, Feb. 28 at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacfic, just **dial in to (866)
740-1260 and enter the access code 3979222**.

Talk to you soon!

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2013-02-27/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Free Drupal Q&A call for nonprofits and social change tomorrow, Feb. 28'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2013-02-27'
# lastmod: 2022-07-12 # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'free-drupal-qa-call-nonprofits-social-change-tomorrow-feb-28' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/130227'
description: 'Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific, Johanna Bates and I will be
  co-hosting the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and
  Q&A call. This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit
  Technology Network (NTEN) but open to anyone. Please join us!' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific, Johanna Bates and I will be
  co-hosting the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and
  Q&A call. This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit
  Technology Network (NTEN) but open to anyone. Please join us!' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'drupal-nonprofit-summit_flickr-sillygwailo_header.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'The Drupal Nonprofit Summit' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'sillygwailo'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'drupal-nonprofit-summit_flickr-sillygwailo_header.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-02'
---

Tomorrow at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacific,
[Johanna Bates](https://devcollaborative.com/about-us) and I will be co-hosting
the monthly Nonprofit Drupal Community of Practice discussion and Q&A call.

**This is a free conference call, sponsored by the Nonprofit Technology Network
(NTEN) but open to anyone.
[Please join us!](https://groups.drupal.org/node/283848)**

### What will we talk about?

This is a time to chat informally with other nonprofit-tech Drupalists — an open
Q&A discussion for anyone with or in nonprofits or social change groups using
Drupal. But generally speaking:

- Stuck on something? Have a question? Drupal experts will be on hand to answer
  questions. (No question is too basic. Really.)
- Psyched about a module or a Drupal event? Come tell us about it on the call!
- What’s happening with Drupal 8? Some of us know stuff. Join us, let’s chat
  about it.

**We’re open to questions or topic suggestions ahead of time — just leave a
comment below or message me on Twitter
[@rootwork](https://twitter.com/rootwork).**

Johanna and I will take collaborative notes on the call
([notes from January’s discussion are here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_D3_YPJv1tMFzicfgnM6N0xTn86wGGSe5cxmSEbnLdg/edit))
so if you can’t make it just let us know if you’d like a link to the notes.

### Join the call!

On Thursday, Feb. 28 at 1PM Eastern/10AM Pacfic, just **dial in to (866)
740-1260 and enter the access code 3979222**.

Talk to you soon!
