hugo/content/blog/2013-02-15/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Frontend session proposals to Portland Drupalcon due today!'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2013-02-15'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'frontend-session-proposals-portland-drupalcon-due-today' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/130215'
description: 'Description' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Summary' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'portland-drupalcon.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Portland Drupalcon banner' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'portland-drupalcon.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - frontend development
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - frontend
  - Drupal

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-02'
---

As the local track chair for the frontend track, I’m posting this to encourage
any last-minute session proposals bouncing around in your head to get typed out
and proposed today.

[**That’s right: Today’s the Portland Drupalcon session proposal deadline. Submit your proposal now!**](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/submit-session.html)

(And yes, nonprofit and nonprofit developer friends,
[there’s an NGO track too](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#NGO).)

This year, the frontend track has been split off from the user experience track,
so you can be even more specific in your proposals. Here are the descriptions
for both tracks:

> ### [Frontend: Connecting new tools and techniques to create an effective Drupal frontend experience](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#frontend)
>
> The frontend experience of a website is crucial to its success. Though the
> backend of a site may be impeccable, the frontend experience gives the user
> the first impression of an organization or company. Without a good frontend
> experience, a site can turn users away. Let’s discover ways in which we can
> connect our knowledge of different frontend tools and techniques with Drupal —
> and make Drupal a better experience for all users.
>
> **Main Themes**
>
> - The importance of frontend development in creating websites + web apps
> - What frontend developers need to know to work well with backend devs, PMs,
>   UX, Content Strategists
> - Preparing frontend devs for D8 and Twig
> - Frontend for mobile
> - Using frontend frameworks such as Foundation and Bootstrap
> - Speeding up the design process
> - Frontend development for multilingual sites
>
> **Audience**
>
> - Frontend developers
> - Backend devs that do Frontend work
> - PMs that work with Frontend devs

> ### [User Experience (UX)](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#UX)
>
> The User Experience process is key to the success of the development of
> websites and web applications. From user research, interviews and analytics,
> we learn what the user actually wants and needs; not what we assume they want.
> At this year’s DrupalCon we present a new User Experience track to show our
> community’s dedication to user needs.
>
> **Main Themes**
>
> - Explaining what user experience is and why it’s important
> - UX for mobile and tablet, Responsive UX
> - Speeding up the design process using UX tools and techniques
> - UX for multilingual sites - especially RTL
> - Content Strategy
>
> **Audience**
>
> - UX professionals - Drupal
> - UX professionals outside of Drupal
> - Backend devs that are interested in UX
> - Frontend devs interested in UX

For the frontend track, global track chair John Ferris and I are looking for
balance among three big areas: CSS and CSS metalanguages like Sass and LESS;
jQuery and JavaScript; and Drupal 8’s new template engine, Twig. There are also
topics that span those areas, such as frontend mobile development (including
responsiveness) and multilingual frontend development.

[**If you’re wondering whether you should submit a session proposal, as track chair let me clear it up for you: You should!**](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/submit-session.html)

### Awesome frontend speakers

Drupalcon has some exciting keynote speakers, such as
[Karen McGrane](https://portland2013.drupal.org/node/798.html). But the frontend
track has some special guests we’re really looking forward to:

- **Jonathan Snook**, author of _Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS_
  (SMACSS), will be
  [presenting some of his ideas for writing great stylesheets](https://portland2013.drupal.org/session/scalable-and-modular-architecture-css.html).
  I’m personally very excited about this one!
- **Jen Lampton**, **Fabian Franz**, and **John Albin Wilkins** will be doing
  [an in-depth look at the aforementioned Twig](https://portland2013.drupal.org/session/using-twig-new-template-engine-drupal-8.html),
  Drupal 8’s new template engine. At a similar
  [presentation at BADCamp](https://web.archive.org/web/20150822122025/http://2012.badcamp.net:80/program/sessions/new-theme-layer-drupal-8)
  last fall, I heard audible gasps from the audience. No joke, Twig is that
  cool.

So if you haven’t already, be sure to
[grab a ticket](https://portland2013.drupal.org/register.html) and get your
travel figured out to my (new) hometown of Portland for the
[2013 North American Drupalcon](https://portland2013.drupal.org/)!

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2013-02-15/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Frontend session proposals to Portland Drupalcon due today!'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2013-02-15'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'frontend-session-proposals-portland-drupalcon-due-today' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/130215'
description: 'Description' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Summary' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'portland-drupalcon.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Portland Drupalcon banner' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'portland-drupalcon.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - frontend development
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2013'
month: '2013-02'
---

As the local track chair for the frontend track, I’m posting this to encourage
any last-minute session proposals bouncing around in your head to get typed out
and proposed today.

[**That’s right: Today’s the Portland Drupalcon session proposal deadline. Submit your proposal now!**](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/submit-session.html)

(And yes, nonprofit and nonprofit developer friends,
[there’s an NGO track too](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#NGO).)

This year, the frontend track has been split off from the user experience track,
so you can be even more specific in your proposals. Here are the descriptions
for both tracks:

> ### [Frontend: Connecting new tools and techniques to create an effective Drupal frontend experience](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#frontend)
>
> The frontend experience of a website is crucial to its success. Though the
> backend of a site may be impeccable, the frontend experience gives the user
> the first impression of an organization or company. Without a good frontend
> experience, a site can turn users away. Let’s discover ways in which we can
> connect our knowledge of different frontend tools and techniques with Drupal —
> and make Drupal a better experience for all users.
>
> **Main Themes**
>
> - The importance of frontend development in creating websites + web apps
> - What frontend developers need to know to work well with backend devs, PMs,
>   UX, Content Strategists
> - Preparing frontend devs for D8 and Twig
> - Frontend for mobile
> - Using frontend frameworks such as Foundation and Bootstrap
> - Speeding up the design process
> - Frontend development for multilingual sites
>
> **Audience**
>
> - Frontend developers
> - Backend devs that do Frontend work
> - PMs that work with Frontend devs

> ### [User Experience (UX)](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/tracks/#UX)
>
> The User Experience process is key to the success of the development of
> websites and web applications. From user research, interviews and analytics,
> we learn what the user actually wants and needs; not what we assume they want.
> At this year’s DrupalCon we present a new User Experience track to show our
> community’s dedication to user needs.
>
> **Main Themes**
>
> - Explaining what user experience is and why it’s important
> - UX for mobile and tablet, Responsive UX
> - Speeding up the design process using UX tools and techniques
> - UX for multilingual sites - especially RTL
> - Content Strategy
>
> **Audience**
>
> - UX professionals - Drupal
> - UX professionals outside of Drupal
> - Backend devs that are interested in UX
> - Frontend devs interested in UX

For the frontend track, global track chair John Ferris and I are looking for
balance among three big areas: CSS and CSS metalanguages like Sass and LESS;
jQuery and JavaScript; and Drupal 8’s new template engine, Twig. There are also
topics that span those areas, such as frontend mobile development (including
responsiveness) and multilingual frontend development.

[**If you’re wondering whether you should submit a session proposal, as track chair let me clear it up for you: You should!**](https://portland2013.drupal.org/program/submit-session.html)

### Awesome frontend speakers

Drupalcon has some exciting keynote speakers, such as
[Karen McGrane](https://portland2013.drupal.org/node/798.html). But the frontend
track has some special guests we’re really looking forward to:

- **Jonathan Snook**, author of _Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS_
  (SMACSS), will be
  [presenting some of his ideas for writing great stylesheets](https://portland2013.drupal.org/session/scalable-and-modular-architecture-css.html).
  I’m personally very excited about this one!
- **Jen Lampton**, **Fabian Franz**, and **John Albin Wilkins** will be doing
  [an in-depth look at the aforementioned Twig](https://portland2013.drupal.org/session/using-twig-new-template-engine-drupal-8.html),
  Drupal 8’s new template engine. At a similar
  [presentation at BADCamp](https://web.archive.org/web/20150822122025/http://2012.badcamp.net:80/program/sessions/new-theme-layer-drupal-8)
  last fall, I heard audible gasps from the audience. No joke, Twig is that
  cool.

So if you haven’t already, be sure to
[grab a ticket](https://portland2013.drupal.org/register.html) and get your
travel figured out to my (new) hometown of Portland for the
[2013 North American Drupalcon](https://portland2013.drupal.org/)!
