hugo/content/blog/2008-05-27/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Hundreds gather for social change tech at NetSquared Year Three'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2008-05-27'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'hundreds-gather-social-change-tech-netsquared-year-three' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/080527'
description: 'The NetSquared Year Three conference has gotten off to a great
  start: Nonprofit staffers, activists, techies and funders gathering to talk
  about -- and award some money to -- using technology for social change.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'The NetSquared Year Three conference has gotten off to a great start:
  Nonprofit staffers, activists, techies and funders gathering to talk about --
  and award some money to -- using technology for social change.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'n2y3-crowd_flickr.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Attendees at NetSquared Conference Year Three' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image: Attendees of NetSquared Conference Year Three, via Flickr.'
thumbnail: 'n2y3-crowd_flickr.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - online advocacy

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

The
[NetSquared Year Three](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710195249/http://www.netsquared.org/mashup 'NetSquared Mashup Challenge')
conference has gotten off to a great start: nonprofit staffers, activists,
techies and funders gathering to talk about — and award some money to — using
technology for social change.

There have been a couple of blog entries focusing on two of the
[featured projects](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709050029/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/n2y3_featured_projects 'View the featured projects'),
KnowMore.org and the Genocide Intervention Network.

KnowMore.org’s proposal is a Firefox extension that just launched, as
[described in the blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20080605012715/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/dietrich/knowmore-firefox-extension-debuts-netsquared-2008):

> The extension itself acts as a simple lens through which to experience the
> web, a lens that brings into focus the business and political practices of
> corporations that you purchase from. How it works is fantastically simple:
> When you go to a website, Firefox displays a notification bar at the top of
> the page, for corporations that have business practices that you might be
> concerned about, as well as a link to read more. The extension also displays
> visual notifications in search engine results, marking links to corporations
> of concern.

The Genocide Intervention Network’s proposal is an anti-genocide legislation
tracker and widget system
[developed by Ivan Boothe](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university 'View the NetSquared proposal').
In an interview with GI-NET’s Ben Drexler, Aida McArthur asks:

> AM: What is the main challenge your staff is experiencing?
>
> BD: Finding an adequate means of transmitting the actions they are able to
> create based upon their analysis. Our traditional means of disseminating this
> information is via e-mail or phone contact, but desire a faster means of
> communicating to a wider audience to be able to mobilize phone calls from
> activists on a faster turnaround basis.

I’ll be continuing to post articles focusing on some of the featured projects —
the
[NetSquared blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20080531044252/http://www.netsquared.org/blog)
is a great place to follow along as well. Some images from the NetSquared
[featured project carnival](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709224453/http://netsquared.org/blog/brenda/n2y3con-project-carnival):

![Green Map (Flickr: Laura Whitehead)](green-map_flickr-thewhiteheads.jpg)

![MapLight.org (Flickr: Katie Laird)](maplight_flickr-happykatie.jpg)

![KnowMore.org Firefox extension (Flickr: Katie Laird)](knowmore_flickr-happykatie.jpg)

![Genocide Intervention Network's anti-genocide legislation tracker (Flickr: TechSoup for Libraries)](genocide-intervention-network_flickr-maintainitproject.jpg)

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2008-05-27/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Hundreds gather for social change tech at NetSquared Year Three'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2008-05-27'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'hundreds-gather-social-change-tech-netsquared-year-three' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/080527'
description: 'The NetSquared Year Three conference has gotten off to a great
  start: Nonprofit staffers, activists, techies and funders gathering to talk
  about -- and award some money to -- using technology for social change.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'The NetSquared Year Three conference has gotten off to a great start:
  Nonprofit staffers, activists, techies and funders gathering to talk about --
  and award some money to -- using technology for social change.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'n2y3-crowd_flickr.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Attendees at NetSquared Conference Year Three' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image: Attendees of NetSquared Conference Year Three, via Flickr.'
thumbnail: 'n2y3-crowd_flickr.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
  -
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

The
[NetSquared Year Three](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710195249/http://www.netsquared.org/mashup 'NetSquared Mashup Challenge')
conference has gotten off to a great start: nonprofit staffers, activists,
techies and funders gathering to talk about — and award some money to — using
technology for social change.

There have been a couple of blog entries focusing on two of the
[featured projects](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709050029/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/n2y3_featured_projects 'View the featured projects'),
KnowMore.org and the Genocide Intervention Network.

KnowMore.org’s proposal is a Firefox extension that just launched, as
[described in the blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20080605012715/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/dietrich/knowmore-firefox-extension-debuts-netsquared-2008):

> The extension itself acts as a simple lens through which to experience the
> web, a lens that brings into focus the business and political practices of
> corporations that you purchase from. How it works is fantastically simple:
> When you go to a website, Firefox displays a notification bar at the top of
> the page, for corporations that have business practices that you might be
> concerned about, as well as a link to read more. The extension also displays
> visual notifications in search engine results, marking links to corporations
> of concern.

The Genocide Intervention Network’s proposal is an anti-genocide legislation
tracker and widget system
[developed by Ivan Boothe](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719230742/http://www.netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university 'View the NetSquared proposal').
In an interview with GI-NET’s Ben Drexler, Aida McArthur asks:

> AM: What is the main challenge your staff is experiencing?
>
> BD: Finding an adequate means of transmitting the actions they are able to
> create based upon their analysis. Our traditional means of disseminating this
> information is via e-mail or phone contact, but desire a faster means of
> communicating to a wider audience to be able to mobilize phone calls from
> activists on a faster turnaround basis.

I’ll be continuing to post articles focusing on some of the featured projects —
the
[NetSquared blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20080531044252/http://www.netsquared.org/blog)
is a great place to follow along as well. Some images from the NetSquared
[featured project carnival](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709224453/http://netsquared.org/blog/brenda/n2y3con-project-carnival):

![Green Map (Flickr: Laura Whitehead)](green-map_flickr-thewhiteheads.jpg)

![MapLight.org (Flickr: Katie Laird)](maplight_flickr-happykatie.jpg)

![KnowMore.org Firefox extension (Flickr: Katie Laird)](knowmore_flickr-happykatie.jpg)

![Genocide Intervention Network's anti-genocide legislation tracker (Flickr: TechSoup for Libraries)](genocide-intervention-network_flickr-maintainitproject.jpg)
