hugo/content/blog/2010-08-30/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Too few women in tech? Blame sexism.'
author: ivan
date: '2010-08-30'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'too-few-women-tech-blame-sexism' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/100830

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
  society is enmeshed. Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as
  discrete, individual acts, disconnected from the larger reality. What too many
  men miss is the reality that the system under which they face such inhumane
  expectations is the same one that limits the potential of women. This exists
  in the technology and nonprofit tech communities no less than the rest of
  society -- and has to be faced in a systematic way, not simply by counting the
  number of women on a tech panel.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
  society is enmeshed. Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as
  discrete, individual acts, disconnected from the larger reality.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'blogher_sfist.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Nametag from the BlogHer conference' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'SFist'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'blogher_sfist.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - community
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-08'
---

Michael Arrington has a
[tedious post on TechCrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2010/08/28/women-in-tech-stop-blaming-me/)
up about the fact that there aren't as many women in technology, or -- more to
the point -- in positions of leadership in technology companies or on panels at
tech conferences isn't men's fault.

But you know what? I think he's right.

**Men aren't to blame for the lack of representation by women in technology.
Nor, clearly, are women to blame. What causes this disparity? One word:
Sexism.**

"But wait!" you cry. "Surely there must be someone _carrying out_ this sexism."
And indeed, that's true -- many individual men, and some women, often put forth
ideas or enact policies that are rooted in sexism.

**But sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
society -- certainly the privileged, Western technology community -- is
enmeshed.**

Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as discrete, individual
acts, disconnected from the larger reality. And so Arrington can complain:

> Every damn time we have a conference we fret over how we can find women to
> fill speaking slots.

By attempting to fill a quota, he thinks he can inoculate himself (or his
conference) against the charge of sexism. (He then makes the absurd point that,
really, women are getting annoyed by being asked to speak at conferences all the
time -- which tends to undo that inoculation a small bit.)

**Men are privileged most directly by sexism, of course, which is why
Arrington's post is so galling.** He suggests "we" need women "who go out and
start companies" rather than "complain about how there are too few women in
tech," as if justice in the technology community and the larger society is only
the job of those who are marginalized, and never the ones who hold power.

Part of this is due to the retreat from full-fledged feminism into what Tim Wise
has called
"[the diversity trap](http://www.timwise.org/1999/12/springing-the-diversity-trap-thoughts-on-how-not-to-defend-affirmative-action/),"
in which a commitment only to "different backgrounds" motivates any kind of
diversity. He's writing about racism and affirmative action, but the movement is
the same -- away from working to end sexism or racism, and toward an anodyne
pledge to provide different perspectives. Wise quotes then-California Gov.
Ronald Reagan, upon signing affirmative action into law in 1974:

> Time and experience have shown that laws and edicts of non-discrimination are
> not enough. Justice demands that each and every citizen consciously adopt and
> accentuate a commitment to affirmative action, which will make equal
> opportunity a reality.

**Providing opportunity alone won't work when the playing field is already
tilted. Simply inviting speakers from a field from which women have been
systematically filtered since birth is too late in the game.**

Arrington makes the mind-boggling assertion that women are at an advantage,
because there are so few of them that the press wants to write about the ones
who "make it." This is the
"[talented tenth](https://teachingamericanhistory.org/document/the-talented-tenth/)"
turned on its head -- that because
[a few individuals](https://www.fastcompany.com/section/women-in-tech-2009) have
struggled against overwhelming odds toward success, and that the media naturally
wants to cover such extraordinary stories, the institutional oppression that
existed to make those stories exceptional in the first place somehow disappears.
As the death threats against tech writer
[Kathy Sierra](https://www.sfgate.com/business/article/TECH-CHRONICLES-A-daily-dose-of-postings-from-2567591.php)
demonstrated, straight-up sexism still holds sway among large parts of this
male-domainted field.

In the sub-field of nonprofit technology, many if not most of the people I look
to are women: [Beth Kanter](https://bethkanter.org/),
[Amy Sample Ward](https://amysampleward.org/),
[Michelle Murrain](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://zenofnptech.org/),
[Alexandra Samuel](https://www.alexandrasamuel.com/),
[Marnie Webb](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://ext337.org/),
[Allyson Kapin](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.frogloop.com/care2blog/author/radcampaign),
[Deborah Elizabeth Finn](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://blog.deborah.elizabeth.finn.com/),
[Allison Fine](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://afine2.wordpress.com/),
[Debra Askanase](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.communityorganizer20.com/),
[Katrin Verclas](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://mobileactive.org/blog/katrinverclas),
[Britt Bravo](https://brittbravo.com/),
[Laura Quinn](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.idealware.org/blogs/laura-quinn),
[Mary Joyce](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://zapboom.com/),
[Holly Ross](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://twitter.com/ntenhross),
[Jocelyn Harmon](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.marketingfornonprofits.org/),
[Carie Lewis](https://cariegrls.blogspot.com/),
[Rebecca Leaman](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://rjleaman.com/),
[Danielle Brigida](https://www.slideshare.net/danielle.brigida),
[Christine Egger](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://my.socialactions.com/profile/ChristineEgger),
[Heather Mansfield](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.diosacommunications.com/bio.htm),
[Shireen Mitchell](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.shireenmitchell.com/),
[Nancy Schwartz](https://web.archive.org/web/20101006043025/http://gettingattention.org/),
[Ruby Sinreich](https://lotusmedia.org/),
[Susan Tenby](https://twitter.com/suzboop),
[danah boyd](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/),
[Nancy Scola](https://web.archive.org/web/20110810123207/http://techpresident.com:80/blog/nancy_scola),
[Kivi Leroux Miller](https://www.nonprofitmarketingguide.com/history/),
[Judith Freeman](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://neworganizing.com/about/staff/leadership-senior-fellows/judith-freeman/),
[Jordan Dossett](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/https://www.antharia.com/staff/details.php?id=2),
[Roz Lemieux](https://web.archive.org/web/20101126090250/http://mixergy.com/roz-lemieux-fission-strategy/),
[Wendy Harman](https://twitter.com/wharman),
[Eve Simon](https://web.archive.org/web/20110205002513/http://www.beaconfire.com/About-Beaconfire/People#peoplebrowser),
[Alnisa Allgood](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.mad-tech.org/forum/topic/listForContributor?user=2ge752rigtexq),
[Jean Russell](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://nurture.biz/),
[Susan Gordon](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://exchange.causes.com/?s=%22susan+gordon%22),
[Katya Andresen](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.nonprofitmarketingblog.com/),
[Maddie Grant](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.socialfish.org/blog),
[Margaux O'Malley](https://www.grandjunctiondesign.com/) -- and that's just off
the top of my head (sorry if I missed anyone).

Yet even in this space, women leaders are repeatedly
[judged on their appearance](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://netsquared.libsyn.com/index.php?post_id=118511).
In the nonprofit field as a whole, despite there being more women than men in
leadership,
[they're still paid less](https://web.archive.org/web/20100825172812/http://www.nptimes.com/Feb03/sr1.html)
across the board, although the gap is
[slowly shrinking](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/gap-grows-in-salaries-for-ceos-study-finds/).
In part this may explain the success of women in this field, as any kind of
[social work](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/08/10/majors)
is seen as
[women's work](https://island94.org/2009/10/Social-work-is-womens-work-so-we-dont-care.html).

Arrington is feeling put-upon because he's experiencing women who point out the
inequity in representation and leadership as a personal attack on him. It's not
that unusual of a response -- it's the same experience white folks have when
people of color talk about racism, straight people have when queers demand equal
treatment, and able-bodied individuals have when persons with disabilities
expect equal access.

This is how oppression is set up -- forcing individuals to compete against one
another _as individuals_ and rendering its pervasive influence invisible.

**Michael Arrington is right to be outraged. But the outrage should be focused
on the sexism that keeps both men _and_ women down.**

While it's women who bear the overwhelming amount of oppression from sexism,
it's a force that inhibits men's growth as well. Men are expected to take on
unbelievable obstacles, toil without complaint and settle for stunted emotional
connections to family and friends.

Many successful men, when confronted with evidence of institutionalized sexism,
feel that their accomplishments are being degraded, because they had to struggle
mightily under such harsh conditions.

**What too many men miss is the reality that the system under which they face
such inhumane expectations is the _same one_ that limits the potential of
women.**

Of course, there are individual men and women who help to support such a system.
Their actions are rightly be identified and they should be given the support and
resources to help to change these actions. But changing individual actions isn't
enough by itself -- the system must be confronted as a whole.

The [BlogHer](https://www.blogher.com/),
[Women Who Tech](https://womenwhotech.org/),
[She's Geeky](https://shesgeeky.org/) and [WebGrrls](https://webgrrls.com/)
conferences are one component, as a place for women to strategize and support
one another; continually pressing for more visibility for women at tech
conferences dominated by men who are
[simply unaware of women techies](https://surfette.typepad.com/blogher/2005/11/do_women_warm_t.html)
is another component.

**What would be even more exciting? A conference of male-identified folks
interested in supporting women who take on positions of leadership in the tech
community.** Part of that involves men looking at what gets in the way of them
supporting more women in "their" space, and men working through that might not
always look pretty to women. But belittling women who point out systematic
inequities as Arrington does is a reactionary response to being asked to account
for one's privilege.

**This needs to be an effort undertaken by both women and men, not for some
vague goal of "diverse voices" but as a way to realize all of our potentials in
technology and beyond.**

**Updates:** Allyson Kapin has a
[great list of specific suggestions](https://www.fastcompany.com/1685780/too-few-women-tech-stop-playing-blame-game)
to address this issue, and Michael Arrington followed up by saying he knows more
needs to be done, but he might delete the post in favor of something
"[far less painful](https://twitter.com/arrington/status/22454841699)." It's
likely that to really address sexism -- if that is what he wants to do -- he'll
have to face some painful truths, however. Jon Pincus says it much more
succinctly:
"[Yes, it's hard. Take some responsibility.](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=1552)"

_P.S. It's worth pointing out that Allyson Kapin, Shireen Mitchell, Jocelyn
Harmon and I are proposing a session on just this topic at next year's Nonprofit
Technology Conference:
[To Diversity and Beyond! Engagement, Accountability and Nonprofits](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.nten.org/node/10318).
We hosted a
[similar discussion](https://web.archive.org/web/20100713111521/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=f4b88cff-ccf8-436d-8a0d-3eed2593fe87)
earlier this year._

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2010-08-30/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Too few women in tech? Blame sexism.'
author: ivan
date: '2010-08-30'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'too-few-women-tech-blame-sexism' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/100830

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
  society is enmeshed. Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as
  discrete, individual acts, disconnected from the larger reality. What too many
  men miss is the reality that the system under which they face such inhumane
  expectations is the same one that limits the potential of women. This exists
  in the technology and nonprofit tech communities no less than the rest of
  society -- and has to be faced in a systematic way, not simply by counting the
  number of women on a tech panel.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
  society is enmeshed. Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as
  discrete, individual acts, disconnected from the larger reality.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'blogher_sfist.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Nametag from the BlogHer conference' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'SFist'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'blogher_sfist.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - community
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-08'
---

Michael Arrington has a
[tedious post on TechCrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2010/08/28/women-in-tech-stop-blaming-me/)
up about the fact that there aren't as many women in technology, or -- more to
the point -- in positions of leadership in technology companies or on panels at
tech conferences isn't men's fault.

But you know what? I think he's right.

**Men aren't to blame for the lack of representation by women in technology.
Nor, clearly, are women to blame. What causes this disparity? One word:
Sexism.**

"But wait!" you cry. "Surely there must be someone _carrying out_ this sexism."
And indeed, that's true -- many individual men, and some women, often put forth
ideas or enact policies that are rooted in sexism.

**But sexism is bigger than any one person; it's a system in which our entire
society -- certainly the privileged, Western technology community -- is
enmeshed.**

Too often, such systematic discrimination as treated as discrete, individual
acts, disconnected from the larger reality. And so Arrington can complain:

> Every damn time we have a conference we fret over how we can find women to
> fill speaking slots.

By attempting to fill a quota, he thinks he can inoculate himself (or his
conference) against the charge of sexism. (He then makes the absurd point that,
really, women are getting annoyed by being asked to speak at conferences all the
time -- which tends to undo that inoculation a small bit.)

**Men are privileged most directly by sexism, of course, which is why
Arrington's post is so galling.** He suggests "we" need women "who go out and
start companies" rather than "complain about how there are too few women in
tech," as if justice in the technology community and the larger society is only
the job of those who are marginalized, and never the ones who hold power.

Part of this is due to the retreat from full-fledged feminism into what Tim Wise
has called
"[the diversity trap](http://www.timwise.org/1999/12/springing-the-diversity-trap-thoughts-on-how-not-to-defend-affirmative-action/),"
in which a commitment only to "different backgrounds" motivates any kind of
diversity. He's writing about racism and affirmative action, but the movement is
the same -- away from working to end sexism or racism, and toward an anodyne
pledge to provide different perspectives. Wise quotes then-California Gov.
Ronald Reagan, upon signing affirmative action into law in 1974:

> Time and experience have shown that laws and edicts of non-discrimination are
> not enough. Justice demands that each and every citizen consciously adopt and
> accentuate a commitment to affirmative action, which will make equal
> opportunity a reality.

**Providing opportunity alone won't work when the playing field is already
tilted. Simply inviting speakers from a field from which women have been
systematically filtered since birth is too late in the game.**

Arrington makes the mind-boggling assertion that women are at an advantage,
because there are so few of them that the press wants to write about the ones
who "make it." This is the
"[talented tenth](https://teachingamericanhistory.org/document/the-talented-tenth/)"
turned on its head -- that because
[a few individuals](https://www.fastcompany.com/section/women-in-tech-2009) have
struggled against overwhelming odds toward success, and that the media naturally
wants to cover such extraordinary stories, the institutional oppression that
existed to make those stories exceptional in the first place somehow disappears.
As the death threats against tech writer
[Kathy Sierra](https://www.sfgate.com/business/article/TECH-CHRONICLES-A-daily-dose-of-postings-from-2567591.php)
demonstrated, straight-up sexism still holds sway among large parts of this
male-domainted field.

In the sub-field of nonprofit technology, many if not most of the people I look
to are women: [Beth Kanter](https://bethkanter.org/),
[Amy Sample Ward](https://amysampleward.org/),
[Michelle Murrain](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://zenofnptech.org/),
[Alexandra Samuel](https://www.alexandrasamuel.com/),
[Marnie Webb](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://ext337.org/),
[Allyson Kapin](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.frogloop.com/care2blog/author/radcampaign),
[Deborah Elizabeth Finn](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://blog.deborah.elizabeth.finn.com/),
[Allison Fine](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://afine2.wordpress.com/),
[Debra Askanase](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.communityorganizer20.com/),
[Katrin Verclas](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://mobileactive.org/blog/katrinverclas),
[Britt Bravo](https://brittbravo.com/),
[Laura Quinn](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.idealware.org/blogs/laura-quinn),
[Mary Joyce](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://zapboom.com/),
[Holly Ross](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://twitter.com/ntenhross),
[Jocelyn Harmon](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.marketingfornonprofits.org/),
[Carie Lewis](https://cariegrls.blogspot.com/),
[Rebecca Leaman](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://rjleaman.com/),
[Danielle Brigida](https://www.slideshare.net/danielle.brigida),
[Christine Egger](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://my.socialactions.com/profile/ChristineEgger),
[Heather Mansfield](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.diosacommunications.com/bio.htm),
[Shireen Mitchell](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.shireenmitchell.com/),
[Nancy Schwartz](https://web.archive.org/web/20101006043025/http://gettingattention.org/),
[Ruby Sinreich](https://lotusmedia.org/),
[Susan Tenby](https://twitter.com/suzboop),
[danah boyd](https://www.zephoria.org/thoughts/),
[Nancy Scola](https://web.archive.org/web/20110810123207/http://techpresident.com:80/blog/nancy_scola),
[Kivi Leroux Miller](https://www.nonprofitmarketingguide.com/history/),
[Judith Freeman](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://neworganizing.com/about/staff/leadership-senior-fellows/judith-freeman/),
[Jordan Dossett](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/https://www.antharia.com/staff/details.php?id=2),
[Roz Lemieux](https://web.archive.org/web/20101126090250/http://mixergy.com/roz-lemieux-fission-strategy/),
[Wendy Harman](https://twitter.com/wharman),
[Eve Simon](https://web.archive.org/web/20110205002513/http://www.beaconfire.com/About-Beaconfire/People#peoplebrowser),
[Alnisa Allgood](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.mad-tech.org/forum/topic/listForContributor?user=2ge752rigtexq),
[Jean Russell](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://nurture.biz/),
[Susan Gordon](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://exchange.causes.com/?s=%22susan+gordon%22),
[Katya Andresen](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.nonprofitmarketingblog.com/),
[Maddie Grant](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.socialfish.org/blog),
[Margaux O'Malley](https://www.grandjunctiondesign.com/) -- and that's just off
the top of my head (sorry if I missed anyone).

Yet even in this space, women leaders are repeatedly
[judged on their appearance](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://netsquared.libsyn.com/index.php?post_id=118511).
In the nonprofit field as a whole, despite there being more women than men in
leadership,
[they're still paid less](https://web.archive.org/web/20100825172812/http://www.nptimes.com/Feb03/sr1.html)
across the board, although the gap is
[slowly shrinking](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/gap-grows-in-salaries-for-ceos-study-finds/).
In part this may explain the success of women in this field, as any kind of
[social work](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/08/10/majors)
is seen as
[women's work](https://island94.org/2009/10/Social-work-is-womens-work-so-we-dont-care.html).

Arrington is feeling put-upon because he's experiencing women who point out the
inequity in representation and leadership as a personal attack on him. It's not
that unusual of a response -- it's the same experience white folks have when
people of color talk about racism, straight people have when queers demand equal
treatment, and able-bodied individuals have when persons with disabilities
expect equal access.

This is how oppression is set up -- forcing individuals to compete against one
another _as individuals_ and rendering its pervasive influence invisible.

**Michael Arrington is right to be outraged. But the outrage should be focused
on the sexism that keeps both men _and_ women down.**

While it's women who bear the overwhelming amount of oppression from sexism,
it's a force that inhibits men's growth as well. Men are expected to take on
unbelievable obstacles, toil without complaint and settle for stunted emotional
connections to family and friends.

Many successful men, when confronted with evidence of institutionalized sexism,
feel that their accomplishments are being degraded, because they had to struggle
mightily under such harsh conditions.

**What too many men miss is the reality that the system under which they face
such inhumane expectations is the _same one_ that limits the potential of
women.**

Of course, there are individual men and women who help to support such a system.
Their actions are rightly be identified and they should be given the support and
resources to help to change these actions. But changing individual actions isn't
enough by itself -- the system must be confronted as a whole.

The [BlogHer](https://www.blogher.com/),
[Women Who Tech](https://womenwhotech.org/),
[She's Geeky](https://shesgeeky.org/) and [WebGrrls](https://webgrrls.com/)
conferences are one component, as a place for women to strategize and support
one another; continually pressing for more visibility for women at tech
conferences dominated by men who are
[simply unaware of women techies](https://surfette.typepad.com/blogher/2005/11/do_women_warm_t.html)
is another component.

**What would be even more exciting? A conference of male-identified folks
interested in supporting women who take on positions of leadership in the tech
community.** Part of that involves men looking at what gets in the way of them
supporting more women in "their" space, and men working through that might not
always look pretty to women. But belittling women who point out systematic
inequities as Arrington does is a reactionary response to being asked to account
for one's privilege.

**This needs to be an effort undertaken by both women and men, not for some
vague goal of "diverse voices" but as a way to realize all of our potentials in
technology and beyond.**

**Updates:** Allyson Kapin has a
[great list of specific suggestions](https://www.fastcompany.com/1685780/too-few-women-tech-stop-playing-blame-game)
to address this issue, and Michael Arrington followed up by saying he knows more
needs to be done, but he might delete the post in favor of something
"[far less painful](https://twitter.com/arrington/status/22454841699)." It's
likely that to really address sexism -- if that is what he wants to do -- he'll
have to face some painful truths, however. Jon Pincus says it much more
succinctly:
"[Yes, it's hard. Take some responsibility.](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=1552)"

_P.S. It's worth pointing out that Allyson Kapin, Shireen Mitchell, Jocelyn
Harmon and I are proposing a session on just this topic at next year's Nonprofit
Technology Conference:
[To Diversity and Beyond! Engagement, Accountability and Nonprofits](https://web.archive.org/web/20100902160446/http://www.nten.org/node/10318).
We hosted a
[similar discussion](https://web.archive.org/web/20100713111521/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=f4b88cff-ccf8-436d-8a0d-3eed2593fe87)
earlier this year._
