hugo/content/blog/2014-04-29/index.md, before:

---
title:
  'Join me at the Devsigner conference in Portland this May: Designers and
  developers join forces!'
author: ivan
date: '2014-04-29'
# lastmod: '2014-04-30' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'join-me-devsigner-conference-portland-may-designers-developers-join-forces'
aliases:
  - /p/140429

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
  coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests -- and those who
  want to develop some new left-right brain skills.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
  coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests -- and those who
  want to develop some new left-right brain skills.

draft: false
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'devsignerslide1.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Portland waterfront' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'devsigner-thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - frontend development
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2014'
month: '2014-04'
---

**Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want
to develop some new left-right brain skills.**

We're looking for folks to break out of their familiar meetup silos and apply
their knowledge across the crafts of development and design.

[**Join me at Devsigner in Portland, Oregon, May 23-25!**](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)

Tickets are
[now on sale](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/),
and
[session submissions are open](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)
until this Friday, May 2!

![Devsigner logo](devsigner2014logo.png 'Devsigner: Portland, OR, May 23-25')

### Sessions will include things like:

- responsive web development for graphic designers
- color theory for coders
- industrial design for web apps
- why bad user experience is a bug
- what web technologies can learn from analog design
- iterative design in open-source communities
- your great idea ---
  [submit a session](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ 'Submit your session!')
  now!

### We're going to mix it up with a variety of session formats:

- Traditional presentations (45--60 minutes)
- Panel and roundtable discussions (45--60 minutes)
- Hands-on, deep-dive workshops (2 hours Friday, 3 hours Saturday and Sunday)
- Lightning talks on Saturday night (more information to come)

We're also kicking off the event with a keynote presentation from a surprise
guest!

### Who should attend?

- graphic designers who want to hone their web design chops
- developers who want to the beauty of their projects to match the beauty of
  their code
- artists who are tired of ugly or unusable websites
- branding experts who want to tell developers a story about the cobbler's
  children
- Sass/Puppet/Angular/Grunt/Node evangelists who want to spread the good word
- [you](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ 'Register Today!')!

I hope to see you there!

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2014-04-29/index.md, after:

---
title:
  'Join me at the Devsigner conference in Portland this May: Designers and
  developers join forces!'
author: ivan
date: '2014-04-29'
# lastmod: '2014-04-30' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'join-me-devsigner-conference-portland-may-designers-developers-join-forces'
aliases:
  - /p/140429

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
  coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests -- and those who
  want to develop some new left-right brain skills.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
  coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests -- and those who
  want to develop some new left-right brain skills.

draft: false
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'devsignerslide1.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Portland waterfront' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'devsigner-thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - frontend development
tags:
  - Drupal
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2014'
month: '2014-04'
---

**Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the
coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want
to develop some new left-right brain skills.**

We're looking for folks to break out of their familiar meetup silos and apply
their knowledge across the crafts of development and design.

[**Join me at Devsigner in Portland, Oregon, May 23-25!**](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)

Tickets are
[now on sale](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/),
and
[session submissions are open](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)
until this Friday, May 2!

![Devsigner logo](devsigner2014logo.png 'Devsigner: Portland, OR, May 23-25')

### Sessions will include things like:

- responsive web development for graphic designers
- color theory for coders
- industrial design for web apps
- why bad user experience is a bug
- what web technologies can learn from analog design
- iterative design in open-source communities
- your great idea ---
  [submit a session](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ 'Submit your session!')
  now!

### We're going to mix it up with a variety of session formats:

- Traditional presentations (45--60 minutes)
- Panel and roundtable discussions (45--60 minutes)
- Hands-on, deep-dive workshops (2 hours Friday, 3 hours Saturday and Sunday)
- Lightning talks on Saturday night (more information to come)

We're also kicking off the event with a keynote presentation from a surprise
guest!

### Who should attend?

- graphic designers who want to hone their web design chops
- developers who want to the beauty of their projects to match the beauty of
  their code
- artists who are tired of ugly or unusable websites
- branding experts who want to tell developers a story about the cobbler's
  children
- Sass/Puppet/Angular/Grunt/Node evangelists who want to spread the good word
- [you](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ 'Register Today!')!

I hope to see you there!
