hugo/content/blog/2008-05-21/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Just what kind of social change are you interested in?'
author: ivan
date: '2008-05-14'
lastmod: '2008-05-21' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'just-what-kind-social-change-are-you-interested' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/080521

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
  members "control" of their "message" in social media. Mostly, I think that's
  nothing more than a fear of losing power. When you think you know how to
  change the world, it can be hard for some people to want to involve others.
  But the message to nonprofits seems pretty clear: Stand in our way, and we'll
  just go around you.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
  members "control" of their "message" in social media. Mostly, I think that's
  nothing more than a fear of losing power.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'wood-toys_flickr-fred_v.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Wooden toys' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'fred_v'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'wood-toys_flickr-fred_v.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - Facebook
  - MySpace
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

This month's "Net2ThinkTank" question:
"[Is Online Activism Good for Social Change?](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724112756/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/join-net2thinktank-what-if-anything-does-all-clicking-blogging-and-friending-add-end)"

As someone who was quoted in the
["Social Citizens"](https://web.archive.org/web/20080923000521/http://www.socialcitizens.org/paper)
report and has written in the past about technology and social change, my answer
to that question would certainly be "yes."

But I think the question is significantly complicated in the question from
Allison Fine, author of "Social Citizens":

> Is our tendency to connect only with like-minded people using our online and
> on land social networks a good thing for activism or a critical bottleneck to
> the effective scaling for causes?

Put another way I think it could be asked: **Online activism is good for social
change -- but what kind of social change?**

Many nonprofits use social networks and online activism as a way to boost their
membership rolls and donation levels. As I've
[written before](/blog/2007/10/organizing-rather-mobilizing-using-social-networks-constituency-building),
that seems less useful to me than focusing on empowering an effective movement
-- whether or not people donate to your organization or sign up for your
newsletter. This isn't to minimize the challenges everyone faces on how to
support working for social change, both financially and emotionally. But it is
to say that **movements are bigger than any one nonprofit**. Certainly,
organizations can ignore that and focus on using MySpace to get new email
addresses and Facebook to drum up donations -- but frankly, I don't think that
has a lot to do with social change.

**Only when the _operational_ concerns are placed secondary to _social change_
concerns do I see social change really being possible.** It's not a secondary
outcome; it has to be the primary concern. And that's true, in my opinion,
whether you're talking about online or offline social change.

More than thirty years ago, sociologists Frances Fox Piven and Richard Cloward
wrote in the introduction to
[_Poor People's Movements: Why They Succeed, How They Fail_](https://books.google.com/books?id=cAlHAAAAMAAJ&q=poor+people%27s+movements&dq=poor+people%27s+movements&pgis=1)
(1977):

> [D]uring those brief moments when lower-class groups exert some force against
> the state, those who call themselves leaders do not usually escalate the
> momentum of the people's protests. They do not because they are preoccupied
> with trying to build and sustain embryonic formal organizations in the sure
> conviction that these organizations will enlarge and become powerful.

More recently, members of the collective INCITE! Women of Color Against Violence
published the scathing
[_The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex_](https://www.dukeupress.edu/the-revolution-will-not-be-funded),
which excoriated the nonprofit system -- primarily foundations, but also the
kind of institutionalized dissent Piven and Cloward explored above -- for
perpetuating the social inequity they say they want to end.

In the 1970s and '80s, rising social inequality helped hasten a breakdown of
both communities and community struggles. (We "Millennials" of which Fine writes
were, of course, originally termed "Reagan Babies.") Poor people's movements
Piven and Cloward explore were co-opted and defused by top-down organizers from
large nonprofits. And family foundations, rooted back in the (first) Gilded Age
and gaining power in the tech booms of the 1990s, helped professionalize the
practice of dissent. Or as Patrick Reinsborough writes in an oft-quoted essay,
["De-Colonizing the Revolutionary Imagination"](https://www.joaap.org/1/de_colonizing/index.html):

> Just as service oriented NGO's have been tapped to fill the voids left by the
> state or the market, so have social change NGO's arisen to streamline the
> chaotic business of dissent. Let's call this trend NGOism, that terrifyingly
> widespread conceit among professional "campaigners" that social change is a
> highly specialized profession best left to experienced strategists,
> negotiators and policy wonks. NGOism is the conceit that paid staff will be
> enough to save the world.

Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
members "control" of their "message" in the realm of social networks and social
media. Mostly, I think that's nothing more than a fear of losing power. When you
think you know how to change the world, it can be hard for some people to want
to involve others -- or give anyone else the credit.

What's interesting is that this time around, there's a significantly higher
ability for activists to self-organize. **The message to nonprofits from
activists in the past few years seems pretty clear: Stand in our way, and we'll
just go around you.**

The 2006 student walkouts for immigrant rights
[spread through MySpace without any "sponsoring" organization](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/28/AR2006032800982.html).
As I explained in a
[presentation on Facebook](https://www.slideshare.net/forumone/ivan-boothe-v2),
when the Genocide Intervention Network first arrived on the scene, we found
dozens of existing groups and networks already active -- our objective was
simply to connect them and provide them with
[effective](https://web.archive.org/web/20071013185105/http://www.1800genocide.com/)
[tools](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708201835/http://www.darfurscores.org/)
for action. A participant in the
[protests over the Jena Six](https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=14586563)
said, "I am so disappointed with the media right now. I live in Connecticut and
I never even heard of this. Honestly if it wasn't for Facebook, I still wouldn't
know."

So the question really goes to the nonprofits and other groups using social
networks and social media:

- **What kind of social change do you want?**
- **Are you willing to help facilitate even if you don't get credit, coverage,
  or donations?**

That doesn't mean that "big" nonprofits can't work for social change through
technology, or that only unsupported volunteers can really make things better --
as Reinsborough puts it in the corollary to the comment above:

> This is not to say that corporate campaigns and winning concessions is merely
> "reformist" and therefore not important. The simplistic dichotomy of reform
> versus revolution often hides the privilege of "radicals" who have the luxury
> of refusing concessions when it's not their community or ecosystem that is on
> the chopping block.
>
> A more important distinction is which direction is the concession moving
> towards? Is it a concession that releases pressure on the system and thereby
> legitimizes illegitimate authority? Or is it a concession that teaches people
> a lesson about grassroots power building and therefore brings us closer to
> systemic social change?

I'm not as worried about whether, as Fine asks, the "tendency to connect only
with like-minded people" puts limitations on what can be achieved. Most social
change movements, including the
[US civil rights movement](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709093103/http://tinyurl.com/4xaffs 'The Origins of the Civil Rights Movement: Black Communities Organizing for Social Change, by Aldon D. Morris'),
are grounded in those sorts of communities, what's referred to as "affective
ties."

But there is a larger question of the technology gap -- social movements in
general might not be as confined by co-optation like Piven and Cloward describe,
but **poor people's movements without access or usable knowledge of such
technology are still vulnerable to having their goals and struggles appropriated
by the more powerful**.

Moreover, as danah boyd explores in her fascinating research, these issues are
played out in social networks themselves. "The division around MySpace and
Facebook is just another way in which technology is mirroring societal values,"
she writes in
["Viewing American class divisions through Facebook and MySpace."](https://www.danah.org/papers/essays/ClassDivisions.html)

So I think there are gaps in **access, in knowledge, and in audience** -- many
nonprofits I've talked to seem to be more excited about organizing on Facebook
for instance, because it seems more "natural" or "easy." But it may seem that
way simply because it aligns with the class and social habits of people who
staff nonprofits -- and as boyd documents, many subaltern communities of people
(for whom nonprofits are often trying to speak) tend to use MySpace to a greater
extent.

Tomorrow is
[Bloggers Unite for Human Rights](https://web.archive.org/web/20080511015655/http://unite.blogcatalog.com/)
(Day). The organizers assert that bloggers can "use their space to make the
world a better place." And clearly, given what I do, I think there is a
potential for social networks and social media to highlight and organize and
empower. But I don't think we can get too far ahead of ourselves, and I think we
need to be clear about just what it is we're reaching for.

**Working for social change means being committed to examining inequality and
injustice in our world, and it's simply naïve to think that those dynamics don't
affect the very way our organizations -- and our notions of social change -- are
structured.**

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2008-05-21/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Just what kind of social change are you interested in?'
author: ivan
date: '2008-05-14'
lastmod: '2008-05-21' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'just-what-kind-social-change-are-you-interested' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/080521

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
  members "control" of their "message" in social media. Mostly, I think that's
  nothing more than a fear of losing power. When you think you know how to
  change the world, it can be hard for some people to want to involve others.
  But the message to nonprofits seems pretty clear: Stand in our way, and we'll
  just go around you.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
  members "control" of their "message" in social media. Mostly, I think that's
  nothing more than a fear of losing power.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'wood-toys_flickr-fred_v.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Wooden toys' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'fred_v'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'wood-toys_flickr-fred_v.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - Facebook
  - MySpace
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

This month's "Net2ThinkTank" question:
"[Is Online Activism Good for Social Change?](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724112756/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/join-net2thinktank-what-if-anything-does-all-clicking-blogging-and-friending-add-end)"

As someone who was quoted in the
["Social Citizens"](https://web.archive.org/web/20080923000521/http://www.socialcitizens.org/paper)
report and has written in the past about technology and social change, my answer
to that question would certainly be "yes."

But I think the question is significantly complicated in the question from
Allison Fine, author of "Social Citizens":

> Is our tendency to connect only with like-minded people using our online and
> on land social networks a good thing for activism or a critical bottleneck to
> the effective scaling for causes?

Put another way I think it could be asked: **Online activism is good for social
change -- but what kind of social change?**

Many nonprofits use social networks and online activism as a way to boost their
membership rolls and donation levels. As I've
[written before](/blog/2007/10/organizing-rather-mobilizing-using-social-networks-constituency-building),
that seems less useful to me than focusing on empowering an effective movement
-- whether or not people donate to your organization or sign up for your
newsletter. This isn't to minimize the challenges everyone faces on how to
support working for social change, both financially and emotionally. But it is
to say that **movements are bigger than any one nonprofit**. Certainly,
organizations can ignore that and focus on using MySpace to get new email
addresses and Facebook to drum up donations -- but frankly, I don't think that
has a lot to do with social change.

**Only when the _operational_ concerns are placed secondary to _social change_
concerns do I see social change really being possible.** It's not a secondary
outcome; it has to be the primary concern. And that's true, in my opinion,
whether you're talking about online or offline social change.

More than thirty years ago, sociologists Frances Fox Piven and Richard Cloward
wrote in the introduction to
[_Poor People's Movements: Why They Succeed, How They Fail_](https://books.google.com/books?id=cAlHAAAAMAAJ&q=poor+people%27s+movements&dq=poor+people%27s+movements&pgis=1)
(1977):

> [D]uring those brief moments when lower-class groups exert some force against
> the state, those who call themselves leaders do not usually escalate the
> momentum of the people's protests. They do not because they are preoccupied
> with trying to build and sustain embryonic formal organizations in the sure
> conviction that these organizations will enlarge and become powerful.

More recently, members of the collective INCITE! Women of Color Against Violence
published the scathing
[_The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex_](https://www.dukeupress.edu/the-revolution-will-not-be-funded),
which excoriated the nonprofit system -- primarily foundations, but also the
kind of institutionalized dissent Piven and Cloward explored above -- for
perpetuating the social inequity they say they want to end.

In the 1970s and '80s, rising social inequality helped hasten a breakdown of
both communities and community struggles. (We "Millennials" of which Fine writes
were, of course, originally termed "Reagan Babies.") Poor people's movements
Piven and Cloward explore were co-opted and defused by top-down organizers from
large nonprofits. And family foundations, rooted back in the (first) Gilded Age
and gaining power in the tech booms of the 1990s, helped professionalize the
practice of dissent. Or as Patrick Reinsborough writes in an oft-quoted essay,
["De-Colonizing the Revolutionary Imagination"](https://www.joaap.org/1/de_colonizing/index.html):

> Just as service oriented NGO's have been tapped to fill the voids left by the
> state or the market, so have social change NGO's arisen to streamline the
> chaotic business of dissent. Let's call this trend NGOism, that terrifyingly
> widespread conceit among professional "campaigners" that social change is a
> highly specialized profession best left to experienced strategists,
> negotiators and policy wonks. NGOism is the conceit that paid staff will be
> enough to save the world.

Some nonprofits, older and more institutionalized, are wary of giving their
members "control" of their "message" in the realm of social networks and social
media. Mostly, I think that's nothing more than a fear of losing power. When you
think you know how to change the world, it can be hard for some people to want
to involve others -- or give anyone else the credit.

What's interesting is that this time around, there's a significantly higher
ability for activists to self-organize. **The message to nonprofits from
activists in the past few years seems pretty clear: Stand in our way, and we'll
just go around you.**

The 2006 student walkouts for immigrant rights
[spread through MySpace without any "sponsoring" organization](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/28/AR2006032800982.html).
As I explained in a
[presentation on Facebook](https://www.slideshare.net/forumone/ivan-boothe-v2),
when the Genocide Intervention Network first arrived on the scene, we found
dozens of existing groups and networks already active -- our objective was
simply to connect them and provide them with
[effective](https://web.archive.org/web/20071013185105/http://www.1800genocide.com/)
[tools](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708201835/http://www.darfurscores.org/)
for action. A participant in the
[protests over the Jena Six](https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=14586563)
said, "I am so disappointed with the media right now. I live in Connecticut and
I never even heard of this. Honestly if it wasn't for Facebook, I still wouldn't
know."

So the question really goes to the nonprofits and other groups using social
networks and social media:

- **What kind of social change do you want?**
- **Are you willing to help facilitate even if you don't get credit, coverage,
  or donations?**

That doesn't mean that "big" nonprofits can't work for social change through
technology, or that only unsupported volunteers can really make things better --
as Reinsborough puts it in the corollary to the comment above:

> This is not to say that corporate campaigns and winning concessions is merely
> "reformist" and therefore not important. The simplistic dichotomy of reform
> versus revolution often hides the privilege of "radicals" who have the luxury
> of refusing concessions when it's not their community or ecosystem that is on
> the chopping block.
>
> A more important distinction is which direction is the concession moving
> towards? Is it a concession that releases pressure on the system and thereby
> legitimizes illegitimate authority? Or is it a concession that teaches people
> a lesson about grassroots power building and therefore brings us closer to
> systemic social change?

I'm not as worried about whether, as Fine asks, the "tendency to connect only
with like-minded people" puts limitations on what can be achieved. Most social
change movements, including the
[US civil rights movement](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709093103/http://tinyurl.com/4xaffs 'The Origins of the Civil Rights Movement: Black Communities Organizing for Social Change, by Aldon D. Morris'),
are grounded in those sorts of communities, what's referred to as "affective
ties."

But there is a larger question of the technology gap -- social movements in
general might not be as confined by co-optation like Piven and Cloward describe,
but **poor people's movements without access or usable knowledge of such
technology are still vulnerable to having their goals and struggles appropriated
by the more powerful**.

Moreover, as danah boyd explores in her fascinating research, these issues are
played out in social networks themselves. "The division around MySpace and
Facebook is just another way in which technology is mirroring societal values,"
she writes in
["Viewing American class divisions through Facebook and MySpace."](https://www.danah.org/papers/essays/ClassDivisions.html)

So I think there are gaps in **access, in knowledge, and in audience** -- many
nonprofits I've talked to seem to be more excited about organizing on Facebook
for instance, because it seems more "natural" or "easy." But it may seem that
way simply because it aligns with the class and social habits of people who
staff nonprofits -- and as boyd documents, many subaltern communities of people
(for whom nonprofits are often trying to speak) tend to use MySpace to a greater
extent.

Tomorrow is
[Bloggers Unite for Human Rights](https://web.archive.org/web/20080511015655/http://unite.blogcatalog.com/)
(Day). The organizers assert that bloggers can "use their space to make the
world a better place." And clearly, given what I do, I think there is a
potential for social networks and social media to highlight and organize and
empower. But I don't think we can get too far ahead of ourselves, and I think we
need to be clear about just what it is we're reaching for.

**Working for social change means being committed to examining inequality and
injustice in our world, and it's simply naïve to think that those dynamics don't
affect the very way our organizations -- and our notions of social change -- are
structured.**
