hugo/content/blog/2009-11-06/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Causes abandons 184,674 nonprofit supporters on MySpace'
author: ivan
date: '2009-11-06'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'causes-abandons-184674-nonprofit-supporters-myspace' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/091106

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  To Causes, leaving MySpace to focus on its core community on Facebook made
  good business sense, but certainly those organizations left in the lurch on
  MySpace feel otherwise. Simply put, you can't rely on third-party, often
  for-profit services to support your organization's interests. What would it
  look like if nonprofits and social change movements -- which these third party
  applications often use to market themselves as effective and "good" -- started
  demanding some openness?

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  You can't rely on third-party, often for-profit services to support your
  organization's interests. What if we started demanding some openness?

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'abandoned-train_flickr-cindy47452.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'An abandoned train' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'cindy47452'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'abandoned-train_flickr-cindy47452.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
  - nonprofit technology
  - open source
  - social media
tags:
  - community
  - MySpace
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-11'
---

This morning, the fundraising application
[Causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201194319/http://www.causes.com/)
quietly shut down their presence on MySpace. In their email to administrators of
Causes on MySpace, they wrote:

> Thank you for the work you've done on Causes on MySpace. Due to the lack of
> activity on MySpace, we've decided to focus our efforts on the Causes
> application on Facebook. On Friday at noon EDT, we will be removing all causes
> from MySpace. In the meantime, you can post a link to a cause on Facebook (or
> create one at
> [http://apps.facebook.com/causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20120203065755/http://apps.facebook.com/causes/))
> asking your members to change over. We appreciate the work you've put into
> your cause community on MySpace and we hope that the broader functionality
> available on the Causes application on Facebook will offer you even more
> opportunities to raise awareness, advocate for change and fundraise for your
> nonprofit. If you have questions, please email support@causes.com.

**At that exact moment,
[Causes on MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20091024070619/https://myspace.com/causesapp)
had 184,674 current users.** That's 184,674 individual people (minus a few
nonprofit staffers) who had taken the time to install an application on MySpace
specifically so they could show their support for a nonprofit charity or
advocacy group on the social network.

As of today, those nonprofit badges have been removed from each of those 184,674
profiles, with no notice to those supporters as to why their Causes badges have
disappeared. (The application's page on MySpace is still up, with no
notification that it's being shut down; new users who try to add it get a
message saying it's "temporarily unavailable.")

No notice has been posted to the
[Causes blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20091108190641/http://exchange.causes.com/);
Susan Gordon, the Senior Nonprofit Coordinator of Causes, said in an email to
me, "We didn't put the announcement on the blog before because the number of
people using the MySpace app is so small."

### Why Causes on MySpace failed: Lack of engagement

It's not clear from either email when Causes decided to shut down the MySpace
side of its operation, or why it chose to do so within just a few days. Causes
began on Facebook and has always had more users on there (currently 35.2
_million_). From Causes' point of view, MySpace was probably more trouble than
it was worth given the percentage of their total users, though I wouldn't call
nearly 200,000 people a "small" number.

**Causes on Facebook had, from the beginning, more to offer nonprofits than its
MySpace version.** Nonprofits could, for instance, send email messages to all
their Causes supporters on Facebook -- something not possible using Fan Pages or
Facebook Groups over 2,000 people. On MySpace, probably due to the limitations
of the network itself, there was no such functionality.

In fact, in one of my first write-ups on
[using social networks for fundraising and advocacy](/blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more#keys),
**I highlighted Causes not as a great way to fundraise but as a great way to
engage members**. There was less chance for engagement on MySpace; though
supporters could still put up a badge demonstrating their support and make
donations, in my experience those were actually the least useful parts of
Causes.
[As I wrote earlier this year](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/04/hello-washington-post-dolllars-per-facebook-donor-is-not-the-right-metric-for-success.html):

> Someone who expects Causes -- or any social networking approach -- to replace
> their development director doesn't understand the nature of social networks.
> It's not about building a more effective ATM -- sorry, "donor list" -- it's
> about cultivating relationships with your most passionate supporters, giving
> them ways to speak in their own voice and connecting them with other people.
>
> Most young folks who are on social networks get this, since it's how they're
> relating socially on these networks already. (As danah boyd has said, "We're
> not addicted to computers, we're addicted to friends.")

Again, I suspect this was a limitation imposed by MySpace, so I don't
necessarily fault Causes. The lesson here, though, is that **a fundraising
widget is not enough of a draw**. The chance for engaging supporters -- not just
in things like one-way email blasts but in things like leaderboards showing the
top fundraisers among supporter-created Causes -- is, in the end, the "killer"
part of this app.

### What this means for nonprofits on MySpace

**Despite repeated claims that MySpace is "dead," I continue to think it's a
smart move for many nonprofits to have a presence there.**

Sociologist danah boyd has documented the clear
[socioeconomic](https://www.danah.org/papers/talks/PDF2009.html 'The Not-So-Hidden Politics of Class Online')
[differences](https://www.danah.org/papers/talks/ICA2009.html 'MySpace vs. Facebook: A Digital Enactment of Class-Based Social Categories Amongst American Teenagers')
between MySpace and Facebook, and Amy Sample Ward has stressed the need to
[know your community and where it is](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/first_and_foremost_know_your_community 'First and Foremost: Know your Community').
Facebook, after all, was built by and for middle- and owning-class
college-educated folks -- exactly those people who fill nonprofit staffs. But if
your organization
[serves a different community](https://web.archive.org/web/20151003162738/http://www.marketingfornonprofits.org/2009/11/are-online-communities-just-as.html?showComment=1257526462528#c6820898715423075412),
then simply going where your staff is familiar might not be the best choice.

For those who want to do peer-to-peer fundraising on MySpace, there are still
widgets like
[ChipIn](https://web.archive.org/web/20120129184134/http://www.chipin.com/)
available for that purpose. They won't have the "built-in" feel that Causes on
MySpace did, but they're fairly easy to guide people through with a quick
training or video.

### What this means for nonprofit fundraising on social networks

**The bigger lesson here is that you can't rely on third-party, often for-profit
services to support your organization's interests.** To Causes, leaving MySpace
to focus on its core community on Facebook made good business sense, but
certainly those organizations left in the lurch on MySpace feel otherwise.

I think Rebecca Leaman
{{< deadlink "said it best" "dl://twitter.com/rjleaman/status/5430851340" >}} --
don't put "all fundraising eggs in one third-party basket!" These services are
useful, and can help your organization advance its mission, but it's not
accountable to you -- and you need to have other options.

### Letting go of your message, holding on to your relationships

I (and many others) have often said that in order to be successful in social
media, nonprofits need to be willing to give up some control over their message
-- to let supporters speak in their own voice. What Causes' move has exposed,
though, is that while it's important to let go of your message, you still need
to have control over your relationships.

**Nonprofits don't own or even control the connections they have with their
supporters in these spaces** -- the comments, messages, badges and memberships
of supporters within social networks are all locked within those social networks
and are used under contract (terms of service) from the social network.

Systems like
[Facebook Connect](https://web.archive.org/web/20091115121119/https://developers.facebook.com/connect.php)
or
[OpenSocial](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201191441/http://code.google.com/apis/opensocial/)
allow those relationships to be exposed elsewhere, but that's not the same as
control. If the social network or service decides the nonprofit has run afoul of
the contract, or the company goes bankrupt, cancels services or features, or
gets sold to a different company who does -- there's nothing an organization
will be able to do.

That's why it's important to have multiple channels of communication with
supporters and to continually try to
[move people toward the center](http://orgnet.com/sna.html) of your organization
by deepening involvement, so that if you lose them in one space they don't
simply fade off into the ether.

### Open-source, open data, open networks

Amy Sample Ward makes some great points that social change communities may have
to
[take the lead on technology](https://amysampleward.org/2009/11/06/new-on-ssir-letting-technology-lead/)
by pushing for more openness and transparency. I've written before, for
instance, that
[community blogs run better on open-source software](/blog/2009/01/community-blogs-run-better-open-source-software),
and I think in principle the same is true for social networks.

But nonprofits and social change movements will always have to go where the
supporters are -- and in many cases that will mean closed, proprietary,
walled-garden social networks.

**What would it look like if nonprofits and social change movements -- which
these third party applications often use to market themselves as effective and
"good" -- started demanding some openness?**

Is it reasonable to assert that organizations and individuals should "own" their
relationships, even when within a proprietary network? Can long-term social
change happen when connections must be re-built on each new online social
network to be developed?

While Causes on MySpace may be no more, I think this event raises some important
questions for the relationship between nonprofits, social change, and for-profit
software and services. What are your thoughts?

**Update:** I hadn't seen
[Read Write Web's coverage](https://readwrite.com/causes_on_myspace/) of this,
but I think it's worth a read. As I say above, I think Causes' supposed
"failures" to raise tons of money for nonprofits is less of an issue than some
might think (for a great perspective on this, see
[Allison Fine](https://web.archive.org/web/20120305054803/http://afine2.wordpress.com/2009/04/22/wash-post-disses-causes-on-facebook/)).
But as many of the commenters suggest, the way forward is to explore mechanisms
for open-sourcing our relationships from these closed, proprietary systems, be
they widgets like Causes or networks like Facebook and MySpace.

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2009-11-06/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Causes abandons 184,674 nonprofit supporters on MySpace'
author: ivan
date: '2009-11-06'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'causes-abandons-184674-nonprofit-supporters-myspace' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/091106

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  To Causes, leaving MySpace to focus on its core community on Facebook made
  good business sense, but certainly those organizations left in the lurch on
  MySpace feel otherwise. Simply put, you can't rely on third-party, often
  for-profit services to support your organization's interests. What would it
  look like if nonprofits and social change movements -- which these third party
  applications often use to market themselves as effective and "good" -- started
  demanding some openness?

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  You can't rely on third-party, often for-profit services to support your
  organization's interests. What if we started demanding some openness?

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'abandoned-train_flickr-cindy47452.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'An abandoned train' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'cindy47452'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'abandoned-train_flickr-cindy47452.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
  - nonprofit technology
  - open source
  - social media
tags:
  - community
  - MySpace
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-11'
---

This morning, the fundraising application
[Causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201194319/http://www.causes.com/)
quietly shut down their presence on MySpace. In their email to administrators of
Causes on MySpace, they wrote:

> Thank you for the work you've done on Causes on MySpace. Due to the lack of
> activity on MySpace, we've decided to focus our efforts on the Causes
> application on Facebook. On Friday at noon EDT, we will be removing all causes
> from MySpace. In the meantime, you can post a link to a cause on Facebook (or
> create one at
> [http://apps.facebook.com/causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20120203065755/http://apps.facebook.com/causes/))
> asking your members to change over. We appreciate the work you've put into
> your cause community on MySpace and we hope that the broader functionality
> available on the Causes application on Facebook will offer you even more
> opportunities to raise awareness, advocate for change and fundraise for your
> nonprofit. If you have questions, please email support@causes.com.

**At that exact moment,
[Causes on MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20091024070619/https://myspace.com/causesapp)
had 184,674 current users.** That's 184,674 individual people (minus a few
nonprofit staffers) who had taken the time to install an application on MySpace
specifically so they could show their support for a nonprofit charity or
advocacy group on the social network.

As of today, those nonprofit badges have been removed from each of those 184,674
profiles, with no notice to those supporters as to why their Causes badges have
disappeared. (The application's page on MySpace is still up, with no
notification that it's being shut down; new users who try to add it get a
message saying it's "temporarily unavailable.")

No notice has been posted to the
[Causes blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20091108190641/http://exchange.causes.com/);
Susan Gordon, the Senior Nonprofit Coordinator of Causes, said in an email to
me, "We didn't put the announcement on the blog before because the number of
people using the MySpace app is so small."

### Why Causes on MySpace failed: Lack of engagement

It's not clear from either email when Causes decided to shut down the MySpace
side of its operation, or why it chose to do so within just a few days. Causes
began on Facebook and has always had more users on there (currently 35.2
_million_). From Causes' point of view, MySpace was probably more trouble than
it was worth given the percentage of their total users, though I wouldn't call
nearly 200,000 people a "small" number.

**Causes on Facebook had, from the beginning, more to offer nonprofits than its
MySpace version.** Nonprofits could, for instance, send email messages to all
their Causes supporters on Facebook -- something not possible using Fan Pages or
Facebook Groups over 2,000 people. On MySpace, probably due to the limitations
of the network itself, there was no such functionality.

In fact, in one of my first write-ups on
[using social networks for fundraising and advocacy](/blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more#keys),
**I highlighted Causes not as a great way to fundraise but as a great way to
engage members**. There was less chance for engagement on MySpace; though
supporters could still put up a badge demonstrating their support and make
donations, in my experience those were actually the least useful parts of
Causes.
[As I wrote earlier this year](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/04/hello-washington-post-dolllars-per-facebook-donor-is-not-the-right-metric-for-success.html):

> Someone who expects Causes -- or any social networking approach -- to replace
> their development director doesn't understand the nature of social networks.
> It's not about building a more effective ATM -- sorry, "donor list" -- it's
> about cultivating relationships with your most passionate supporters, giving
> them ways to speak in their own voice and connecting them with other people.
>
> Most young folks who are on social networks get this, since it's how they're
> relating socially on these networks already. (As danah boyd has said, "We're
> not addicted to computers, we're addicted to friends.")

Again, I suspect this was a limitation imposed by MySpace, so I don't
necessarily fault Causes. The lesson here, though, is that **a fundraising
widget is not enough of a draw**. The chance for engaging supporters -- not just
in things like one-way email blasts but in things like leaderboards showing the
top fundraisers among supporter-created Causes -- is, in the end, the "killer"
part of this app.

### What this means for nonprofits on MySpace

**Despite repeated claims that MySpace is "dead," I continue to think it's a
smart move for many nonprofits to have a presence there.**

Sociologist danah boyd has documented the clear
[socioeconomic](https://www.danah.org/papers/talks/PDF2009.html 'The Not-So-Hidden Politics of Class Online')
[differences](https://www.danah.org/papers/talks/ICA2009.html 'MySpace vs. Facebook: A Digital Enactment of Class-Based Social Categories Amongst American Teenagers')
between MySpace and Facebook, and Amy Sample Ward has stressed the need to
[know your community and where it is](https://ssir.org/articles/entry/first_and_foremost_know_your_community 'First and Foremost: Know your Community').
Facebook, after all, was built by and for middle- and owning-class
college-educated folks -- exactly those people who fill nonprofit staffs. But if
your organization
[serves a different community](https://web.archive.org/web/20151003162738/http://www.marketingfornonprofits.org/2009/11/are-online-communities-just-as.html?showComment=1257526462528#c6820898715423075412),
then simply going where your staff is familiar might not be the best choice.

For those who want to do peer-to-peer fundraising on MySpace, there are still
widgets like
[ChipIn](https://web.archive.org/web/20120129184134/http://www.chipin.com/)
available for that purpose. They won't have the "built-in" feel that Causes on
MySpace did, but they're fairly easy to guide people through with a quick
training or video.

### What this means for nonprofit fundraising on social networks

**The bigger lesson here is that you can't rely on third-party, often for-profit
services to support your organization's interests.** To Causes, leaving MySpace
to focus on its core community on Facebook made good business sense, but
certainly those organizations left in the lurch on MySpace feel otherwise.

I think Rebecca Leaman
{{< deadlink "said it best" "dl://twitter.com/rjleaman/status/5430851340" >}} --
don't put "all fundraising eggs in one third-party basket!" These services are
useful, and can help your organization advance its mission, but it's not
accountable to you -- and you need to have other options.

### Letting go of your message, holding on to your relationships

I (and many others) have often said that in order to be successful in social
media, nonprofits need to be willing to give up some control over their message
-- to let supporters speak in their own voice. What Causes' move has exposed,
though, is that while it's important to let go of your message, you still need
to have control over your relationships.

**Nonprofits don't own or even control the connections they have with their
supporters in these spaces** -- the comments, messages, badges and memberships
of supporters within social networks are all locked within those social networks
and are used under contract (terms of service) from the social network.

Systems like
[Facebook Connect](https://web.archive.org/web/20091115121119/https://developers.facebook.com/connect.php)
or
[OpenSocial](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201191441/http://code.google.com/apis/opensocial/)
allow those relationships to be exposed elsewhere, but that's not the same as
control. If the social network or service decides the nonprofit has run afoul of
the contract, or the company goes bankrupt, cancels services or features, or
gets sold to a different company who does -- there's nothing an organization
will be able to do.

That's why it's important to have multiple channels of communication with
supporters and to continually try to
[move people toward the center](http://orgnet.com/sna.html) of your organization
by deepening involvement, so that if you lose them in one space they don't
simply fade off into the ether.

### Open-source, open data, open networks

Amy Sample Ward makes some great points that social change communities may have
to
[take the lead on technology](https://amysampleward.org/2009/11/06/new-on-ssir-letting-technology-lead/)
by pushing for more openness and transparency. I've written before, for
instance, that
[community blogs run better on open-source software](/blog/2009/01/community-blogs-run-better-open-source-software),
and I think in principle the same is true for social networks.

But nonprofits and social change movements will always have to go where the
supporters are -- and in many cases that will mean closed, proprietary,
walled-garden social networks.

**What would it look like if nonprofits and social change movements -- which
these third party applications often use to market themselves as effective and
"good" -- started demanding some openness?**

Is it reasonable to assert that organizations and individuals should "own" their
relationships, even when within a proprietary network? Can long-term social
change happen when connections must be re-built on each new online social
network to be developed?

While Causes on MySpace may be no more, I think this event raises some important
questions for the relationship between nonprofits, social change, and for-profit
software and services. What are your thoughts?

**Update:** I hadn't seen
[Read Write Web's coverage](https://readwrite.com/causes_on_myspace/) of this,
but I think it's worth a read. As I say above, I think Causes' supposed
"failures" to raise tons of money for nonprofits is less of an issue than some
might think (for a great perspective on this, see
[Allison Fine](https://web.archive.org/web/20120305054803/http://afine2.wordpress.com/2009/04/22/wash-post-disses-causes-on-facebook/)).
But as many of the commenters suggest, the way forward is to explore mechanisms
for open-sourcing our relationships from these closed, proprietary systems, be
they widgets like Causes or networks like Facebook and MySpace.
