hugo/content/blog/2009-02-23/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Using Facebook for social change: The webinar'
author: ivan
date: '2009-02-23'
# lastmod: '2022-07-14' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'using-facebook-social-change-webinar' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/090223

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Just a quick note to say I'll be speaking as part of Social Actions' "Using
  Facebook for Social Change" webinar on Thursday, along with Susan Gordon, the
  nonprofit coordinator of Causes, and moderated by Beth Pickard and David Karp
  of Firstgiving: "You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to
  discuss how you can use Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity
  to share experiences and ask questions about how people and orgs can do
  outreach, inspire action, and fund raise on the Facebook network."

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  "You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to discuss how you can
  use Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity to share experiences
  and ask questions about how people and orgs can do outreach, inspire action,
  and fund raise on the Facebook network."

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'facebook-homepage_flickr-chriscorneschi.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Facebook home page' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'chriscorneschi'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'facebook-homepage_flickr-chriscorneschi.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Facebook
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-02'
---

![Talking about 'Facebook' is strictly prohibited on these premises](facebook-prohibited_flickr-avlxyz.jpg 'Image credit Flickr user avlxyz')

Just a quick note to say I'll be speaking as part of Social Actions' free
"[Using Facebook for Social Change](https://web.archive.org/web/20130214111207/http://my.socialactions.com/events/using-facebook-for-social)"
webinar on Thursday, along with Susan Gordon, the nonprofit coordinator of
[Causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20100212133059/http://www.causes.com:80/),
and moderated by
[Beth Pickard](https://web.archive.org/web/20090227143802/http://www.firstgiving.com/triathabeth)
and
[David Karp](https://web.archive.org/web/20091211184922/http://www.limeduck.com:80/)
of
[Firstgiving](https://web.archive.org/web/20090211180056/http://firstgiving.com/).

> You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to discuss how you can use
> Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity to share experiences and
> ask questions about how people and orgs can do outreach, inspire action, and
> fund raise on the Facebook network.

The webinar is part of Social Actions'
[Change the Web Conversation Series](https://web.archive.org/web/20130720173600/http://my.socialactions.com/profiles/blogs/change-the-web-conversation).

I'll be talking about some of the
[successes the Genocide Intervention Network has had](//blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more 'Read about some of the successes')
in using Facebook and Causes to engage its member base, increase the impact of
advocacy campaigns, and raise (a little) money.

**[RSVP for the event, happening Thursday, Feb. 26, at 11 AM PST/2 PM EST.](https://web.archive.org/web/20090225112746/http://my.socialactions.com/events/using-facebook-for-social)**
(Note that if you're not already a member of Social Actions, you'll need to sign
up before you can RSVP, but it's free.)

I invite you to **ask questions in the comments below ahead of time** and I'll
do my best to answer them during the event!

Update: Dan Schultz, author of
[A DigiActive Guide to Facebook Activism](https://web.archive.org/web/20090222135615/http://www.digiactive.org/2008/06/28/guide-a-digiactive-introduction-to-facebook-activism/),
will also be speaking!

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2009-02-23/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Using Facebook for social change: The webinar'
author: ivan
date: '2009-02-23'
# lastmod: '2022-07-14' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'using-facebook-social-change-webinar' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/090223

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Just a quick note to say I'll be speaking as part of Social Actions' "Using
  Facebook for Social Change" webinar on Thursday, along with Susan Gordon, the
  nonprofit coordinator of Causes, and moderated by Beth Pickard and David Karp
  of Firstgiving: "You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to
  discuss how you can use Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity
  to share experiences and ask questions about how people and orgs can do
  outreach, inspire action, and fund raise on the Facebook network."

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  "You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to discuss how you can
  use Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity to share experiences
  and ask questions about how people and orgs can do outreach, inspire action,
  and fund raise on the Facebook network."

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'facebook-homepage_flickr-chriscorneschi.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Facebook home page' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'chriscorneschi'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'facebook-homepage_flickr-chriscorneschi.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Facebook
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-02'
---

![Talking about 'Facebook' is strictly prohibited on these premises](facebook-prohibited_flickr-avlxyz.jpg 'Image credit Flickr user avlxyz')

Just a quick note to say I'll be speaking as part of Social Actions' free
"[Using Facebook for Social Change](https://web.archive.org/web/20130214111207/http://my.socialactions.com/events/using-facebook-for-social)"
webinar on Thursday, along with Susan Gordon, the nonprofit coordinator of
[Causes](https://web.archive.org/web/20100212133059/http://www.causes.com:80/),
and moderated by
[Beth Pickard](https://web.archive.org/web/20090227143802/http://www.firstgiving.com/triathabeth)
and
[David Karp](https://web.archive.org/web/20091211184922/http://www.limeduck.com:80/)
of
[Firstgiving](https://web.archive.org/web/20090211180056/http://firstgiving.com/).

> You're invited to join in a live and open text chat to discuss how you can use
> Facebook for social change. This is your opportunity to share experiences and
> ask questions about how people and orgs can do outreach, inspire action, and
> fund raise on the Facebook network.

The webinar is part of Social Actions'
[Change the Web Conversation Series](https://web.archive.org/web/20130720173600/http://my.socialactions.com/profiles/blogs/change-the-web-conversation).

I'll be talking about some of the
[successes the Genocide Intervention Network has had](//blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more 'Read about some of the successes')
in using Facebook and Causes to engage its member base, increase the impact of
advocacy campaigns, and raise (a little) money.

**[RSVP for the event, happening Thursday, Feb. 26, at 11 AM PST/2 PM EST.](https://web.archive.org/web/20090225112746/http://my.socialactions.com/events/using-facebook-for-social)**
(Note that if you're not already a member of Social Actions, you'll need to sign
up before you can RSVP, but it's free.)

I invite you to **ask questions in the comments below ahead of time** and I'll
do my best to answer them during the event!

Update: Dan Schultz, author of
[A DigiActive Guide to Facebook Activism](https://web.archive.org/web/20090222135615/http://www.digiactive.org/2008/06/28/guide-a-digiactive-introduction-to-facebook-activism/),
will also be speaking!
