hugo/content/blog/2010-12-09/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Facebook removes default landing tab for new nonprofit pages'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-12-09'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'facebook-removes-default-landing-tab-new-nonprofit-pages' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/101209'
description: "Now all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be directed
  to the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move to
  smaller links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find
  out more about your organization." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Now all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be directed to
  the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move to smaller
  links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find out more
  about your organization." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'helipad-sunset_flickr-sbszine.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A helipad at sunset' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'sbszine'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'helipad-sunset_flickr-sbszine.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Facebook
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - Facebook

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-12'
---

![Old Facebook Pages vs. new Facebook Pages](fb-no-default-tabs.png ' ')

If you're a nonprofit with a mailing address, you may have already received the
card in the mail from Facebook: An invitation to claim your organization's
Facebook Places page.
[Facebook Places](https://www.facebook.com/places "Visit Facebook Places' home page")
allows people to "check in" when they're at your organization, publicizing you
to their friends. Places also allows companies to offer "deals" to people who
check in (like 10% off), although how that applies to a nonprofit is less clear.

If you already had a Facebook Page, when you go to claim your Facebook Place,
you'll be prompted to merge the two.

This new, merged page will look a little different from your old page. Among
other differences, what were formerly tabs across the top of your page will now
be links underneath your profile picture, similar to the
[new Facebook Profiles](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://www.johnhaydon.com/2010/12/new-and-improved-facebook-profiles-a-screen-shot-tour/ 'View a walk-through of the new Facebook Profiles from John Haydon').

**And that's where the trouble starts: On your new merged Facebook Page — as the
picture above shows — you will no longer be able to specify a default landing
tab.**

Default landing tabs are a powerful way to
[convert visitors to fans](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://fblandingtabs.wikispaces.com/Nonprofitexamples 'View a slideshow on creating default landing tabs by Debra Askanase').
Instead of new visitors simply being dumped on your Wall, nonprofits (and other
companies) could create custom tabs, welcoming new visitors, introducing them to
the organization, and encouraging them to "Like" the nonprofit.

Earlier this year, Facebook announced they were
{{< deadlink "dropping support for new custom tabs that used Facebook Markup Language (FBML)" "dl://www.facebook.com/posted.php?id=212577490407&share_id=112272642162634&comments=1#s112272642162634" "Read Beth Kanter's discussion about this change on Facebook" >}},
although you could still specify a particular application tab as your landing
page, including
[custom-page-creating applications](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://savedelete.com/how-to-create-impressive-welcome-page-for-your-facebook-fan-page-absolutely-free.html 'A guide to creating custom landing tabs from SaveDelete blog').
Indeed, a custom landing tab was recommended as a
[Facebook best practice](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://www.diosacommunications.com/facebookbestpractices.htm#19 'Read the Facebook best practices for nonprofits')
for nonprofits.

**Now, however, it appears all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be
directed to the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move
to smaller links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find
out more about your organization.**

Since at the moment this only appears to affect Places pages, and any existing
Pages merged with a Place, it's unclear whether this is simply a roll-out bug or
something more long-term. But given that Facebook
[first removed the default landing tab a few months ago](https://nonprofitorgs.wordpress.com/2009/12/13/attn-nonprofits-major-changes-coming-soon-to-facebook-fan-pages/ 'Read about the changes to the Pages and Profiles over time, by Heather Mansfield'),
reinstating it after an uproar — but only "temporarily" — I would guess that
this is the direction of things on Facebook.

It's possible that this might only apply to pages in some categories, e.g.
nonprofits but not companies; I don't have access to any company Facebook pages
to investigate this on. It appears a default landing tab has
{{< deadlink "never been available" "dl://www.facebook.com/help/#%21/help/?question=87334" "Read Facebook's help topic on default landing tabs and Community Pages">}}
on things categorized as Community Pages — initially auto-generated from
interests listed on profiles.

**It appears that default landing tabs are not available on Places pages — or
any traditional Pages "merged" with Places. My prediction is that it won't stick
around for the rest of the Pages on Facebook.**

It's not clear to me what the advantage of this is to Facebook, other than a
general "standardness of experience" for users. Yet without any way to
(substantially) customize the Wall, this seems like a net loss for both
organizations and regular users. New visitors will no longer have an easy way to
be introduced to an organization, and organizations will have to carefully
cultivate their Wall to — at any moment — appeal to both current fans and new
visitors.

I'm not sure what possible solutions out there, although one might be to make
sure your Page's image/logo quickly communicates exactly what your nonprofit is
about.

What are your thoughts on these changes to Facebook?

_Note: If you blog about this, feel free to re-use the image above, with credit.
It, like everything of mine on this site, is licensed under
[Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/ 'Read the Creative Commons license')._

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2010-12-09/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Facebook removes default landing tab for new nonprofit pages'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-12-09'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'facebook-removes-default-landing-tab-new-nonprofit-pages' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/101209'
description: "Now all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be directed
  to the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move to
  smaller links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find
  out more about your organization." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Now all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be directed to
  the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move to smaller
  links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find out more
  about your organization." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'helipad-sunset_flickr-sbszine.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A helipad at sunset' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'sbszine'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'helipad-sunset_flickr-sbszine.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Facebook
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-12'
---

![Old Facebook Pages vs. new Facebook Pages](fb-no-default-tabs.png ' ')

If you're a nonprofit with a mailing address, you may have already received the
card in the mail from Facebook: An invitation to claim your organization's
Facebook Places page.
[Facebook Places](https://www.facebook.com/places "Visit Facebook Places' home page")
allows people to "check in" when they're at your organization, publicizing you
to their friends. Places also allows companies to offer "deals" to people who
check in (like 10% off), although how that applies to a nonprofit is less clear.

If you already had a Facebook Page, when you go to claim your Facebook Place,
you'll be prompted to merge the two.

This new, merged page will look a little different from your old page. Among
other differences, what were formerly tabs across the top of your page will now
be links underneath your profile picture, similar to the
[new Facebook Profiles](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://www.johnhaydon.com/2010/12/new-and-improved-facebook-profiles-a-screen-shot-tour/ 'View a walk-through of the new Facebook Profiles from John Haydon').

**And that's where the trouble starts: On your new merged Facebook Page — as the
picture above shows — you will no longer be able to specify a default landing
tab.**

Default landing tabs are a powerful way to
[convert visitors to fans](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://fblandingtabs.wikispaces.com/Nonprofitexamples 'View a slideshow on creating default landing tabs by Debra Askanase').
Instead of new visitors simply being dumped on your Wall, nonprofits (and other
companies) could create custom tabs, welcoming new visitors, introducing them to
the organization, and encouraging them to "Like" the nonprofit.

Earlier this year, Facebook announced they were
{{< deadlink "dropping support for new custom tabs that used Facebook Markup Language (FBML)" "dl://www.facebook.com/posted.php?id=212577490407&share_id=112272642162634&comments=1#s112272642162634" "Read Beth Kanter's discussion about this change on Facebook" >}},
although you could still specify a particular application tab as your landing
page, including
[custom-page-creating applications](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://savedelete.com/how-to-create-impressive-welcome-page-for-your-facebook-fan-page-absolutely-free.html 'A guide to creating custom landing tabs from SaveDelete blog').
Indeed, a custom landing tab was recommended as a
[Facebook best practice](https://web.archive.org/web/20110826093738/http://www.diosacommunications.com/facebookbestpractices.htm#19 'Read the Facebook best practices for nonprofits')
for nonprofits.

**Now, however, it appears all visitors to a nonprofit's Facebook Page will be
directed to the Wall. What's more, with tabs being de-emphasized by their move
to smaller links under your profile, it's less obvious how new visitors can find
out more about your organization.**

Since at the moment this only appears to affect Places pages, and any existing
Pages merged with a Place, it's unclear whether this is simply a roll-out bug or
something more long-term. But given that Facebook
[first removed the default landing tab a few months ago](https://nonprofitorgs.wordpress.com/2009/12/13/attn-nonprofits-major-changes-coming-soon-to-facebook-fan-pages/ 'Read about the changes to the Pages and Profiles over time, by Heather Mansfield'),
reinstating it after an uproar — but only "temporarily" — I would guess that
this is the direction of things on Facebook.

It's possible that this might only apply to pages in some categories, e.g.
nonprofits but not companies; I don't have access to any company Facebook pages
to investigate this on. It appears a default landing tab has
{{< deadlink "never been available" "dl://www.facebook.com/help/#%21/help/?question=87334" "Read Facebook's help topic on default landing tabs and Community Pages">}}
on things categorized as Community Pages — initially auto-generated from
interests listed on profiles.

**It appears that default landing tabs are not available on Places pages — or
any traditional Pages "merged" with Places. My prediction is that it won't stick
around for the rest of the Pages on Facebook.**

It's not clear to me what the advantage of this is to Facebook, other than a
general "standardness of experience" for users. Yet without any way to
(substantially) customize the Wall, this seems like a net loss for both
organizations and regular users. New visitors will no longer have an easy way to
be introduced to an organization, and organizations will have to carefully
cultivate their Wall to — at any moment — appeal to both current fans and new
visitors.

I'm not sure what possible solutions out there, although one might be to make
sure your Page's image/logo quickly communicates exactly what your nonprofit is
about.

What are your thoughts on these changes to Facebook?

_Note: If you blog about this, feel free to re-use the image above, with credit.
It, like everything of mine on this site, is licensed under
[Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/ 'Read the Creative Commons license')._
