hugo/content/blog/2014-03-15/index.md, before:

---
title: 'What online advocacy can learn from community organizing'
author: ivan
date: '2014-03-15'
lastmod: '2015-03-06' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'online-advocacy-learn-community-organizing' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /blog/2014/03/what-online-advocacy-can-learn-community-organizing-2014-nonprofit-tech-conference
  - /p/140315

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and
  you'll be closer to effecting change in the future.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and
  you'll be closer to effecting change in the future.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: true
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: '2014-04-ntc-b.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Cover slide from the presentation' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'fenris117'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: '2014-04-ntc-b.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2014'
month: '2014-03'
---

A transcript from my portion of the
"[Big Idea](https://14ntc.sched.com/event/10981233f5dfb1e3ca5a325d9bd19f81)"
panel on "The Power of Technology in Advocacy and Organizing" from the 2014
Nonprofit Technology Conference, March 13-15 in Washington, DC.

_Update, March 6, 2015: Today I gave a similar presentation as part of the 2015
Nonprofit Technology Conference's Ignite talks. You can
[view the Slideshare](https://www.slideshare.net/rootwork/the-technology-of-social-change)
or [download the PDF](2015-03-06_technology-social-change.pdf), but the slides
are simply images._

In many ways this is a retelling of
[an article I wrote back in 2010](/blog/2010/04/what-online-activism-can-learn-from-community-organizing/)
about online and offline organizing, with a more visual focus. If you prefer
words to images, the original might serve you better.

### Online advocacy and community organizing

My background is in community organizing and social movement theory, and that's
what I'd like to talk a little bit about today.

![Strategy](2014004-ntc-b-0031280.jpg ' ')

In popular culture, we have two stories we usually tell about social change --
two lenses in which we view advocacy and activism.

![Charisma](2014004-ntc-b-0041280.jpg ' ')

The first is about a charismatic leader. Gandhi led India to freedom. Or Rosa
Parks, who one day was too tired to get up and inspired a city to boycott a
racist public policy.

![Spontaneous](2014004-ntc-b-0051280.jpg ' ')

The second story we tell is about a spontaneous event. Something shifted in the
world around us, and people responded in positive ways. Egyptians took to the
square to reclaim their democracy.

![Nope.](2014004-ntc-b-0061280.jpg ' ')

While both of these stories have kernels of truth -- events happen, and people
inspire -- they are fundamentally not how social change occurs. Instead, it's
movement-building work that pushes change forward.

![Training](2014004-ntc-b-0071280.jpg ' ')

Rosa Parks wasn't just tired -- she was trained.

![Physical and virtual](2014004-ntc-b-0081280.jpg ' ')

The Egyptian revolution didn't just happen, it was preceded by years of student
organizing.

![Strategy](2014004-ntc-b-0091280.jpg ' ')

The most successful social change movements didn't just get lucky or figure out
how to use the newest tools, they were built through concerted strategic
planning. Our work for change can draw on that history and experience.

![Catalyst planning](2014004-ntc-b-0101280.jpg ' ')

Catalyst moments might be unplanned, but the infrastructure can be built.

![Sustainability](2014004-ntc-b-0111280.jpg ' ')

In our organizations, we tend to privilege one set of actions over the other. We
focus on important task-based work like website development, fundraising,
communications, and the campaign strategy I just mentioned.

![Maintenance work](2014004-ntc-b-0121280.jpg ' ')

But there's more to an organization and more to a movement than that. There's
another group of endeavors sometimes called maintenance work, and it flies under
the radar even though it's crucial to keeping our campaigns afloat.

![Gardening](2014004-ntc-b-0131280.jpg ' ')

Maintenance work involves things like leadership development, facilitating
communication, conflict resolution, anti-oppression work, and visioning, the
things that fertilize our movements.

![Certified expert](2014004-ntc-b-0141280.jpg ' ')

We often privilege task work over maintenance work. Community knowledge and
strategic knowledge is devalued in favor of technical knowledge, because
technical knowledge can be more easily measured.

![Certified expert white men](2014004-ntc-b-0151280.jpg ' ')

Meanwhile, movement-building work is disproportionately done by women, leaving
men in the "important" and visible roles.

![Gatekeepers](2014004-ntc-b-0161280.jpg ' ')

At its worst, a specialization of knowledge leads to accumulation of informal,
unacknowledged power through gatekeeping.

![Gatekeeper techies](2014004-ntc-b-0171280.jpg ' ')

Or to put it another way, "We'll launch that campaign when I'm ready to update
the website for you."

![Solidarity](2014004-ntc-b-0181280.jpg ' ')

In our organizations, we should be striving toward social change, not startup
culture. We should cultivate sustainable work. We should commit to
anti-oppression work so we don't replicate the unequal society we're trying to
improve. We should provide benefits rather than relying on a precarious
workforce of independent contractors. We should _pay our interns_. We should
allow staff to unionize, or become a worker-owned collective.

![Capitalism is crisis](2014004-ntc-b-0191280.jpg ' ')

And in general, we should remember that social change is not a business. We
should be ruthless in stealing ideas from the business community, but we should
not expect them to work for us just because they made people some money.

![Good social movement history](2014004-ntc-b-0201280.jpg ' ')

In closing, my one piece of advice is in addition to all the
[Twitter](/tags/twitter/) guides and fundraising how-tos in your tool belt,
explore some movement history. Whether it's _Poor People's Movements_ about work
against economic injustice, _I've Got the Light of Freedom_ or _Southern Labor
and Black Civil Rights_ about the black-led freedom struggle

![Green Memes organizing guide](2014004-ntc-b-0211280.jpg ' ')

Or maybe my little article in
[this recent publication by Green Memes](https://greenmemesteam.tumblr.com/guide).
Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and you'll
be closer to effecting change in the future.

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2014-03-15/index.md, after:

---
title: 'What online advocacy can learn from community organizing'
author: ivan
date: '2014-03-15'
lastmod: '2015-03-06' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'online-advocacy-learn-community-organizing' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /blog/2014/03/what-online-advocacy-can-learn-community-organizing-2014-nonprofit-tech-conference
  - /p/140315

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and
  you'll be closer to effecting change in the future.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and
  you'll be closer to effecting change in the future.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: true
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: '2014-04-ntc-b.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Cover slide from the presentation' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'fenris117'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: '2014-04-ntc-b.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2014'
month: '2014-03'
---

A transcript from my portion of the
"[Big Idea](https://14ntc.sched.com/event/10981233f5dfb1e3ca5a325d9bd19f81)"
panel on "The Power of Technology in Advocacy and Organizing" from the 2014
Nonprofit Technology Conference, March 13-15 in Washington, DC.

_Update, March 6, 2015: Today I gave a similar presentation as part of the 2015
Nonprofit Technology Conference's Ignite talks. You can
[view the Slideshare](https://www.slideshare.net/rootwork/the-technology-of-social-change)
or [download the PDF](2015-03-06_technology-social-change.pdf), but the slides
are simply images._

In many ways this is a retelling of
[an article I wrote back in 2010](/blog/2010/04/what-online-activism-can-learn-from-community-organizing/)
about online and offline organizing, with a more visual focus. If you prefer
words to images, the original might serve you better.

### Online advocacy and community organizing

My background is in community organizing and social movement theory, and that's
what I'd like to talk a little bit about today.

![Strategy](2014004-ntc-b-0031280.jpg ' ')

In popular culture, we have two stories we usually tell about social change --
two lenses in which we view advocacy and activism.

![Charisma](2014004-ntc-b-0041280.jpg ' ')

The first is about a charismatic leader. Gandhi led India to freedom. Or Rosa
Parks, who one day was too tired to get up and inspired a city to boycott a
racist public policy.

![Spontaneous](2014004-ntc-b-0051280.jpg ' ')

The second story we tell is about a spontaneous event. Something shifted in the
world around us, and people responded in positive ways. Egyptians took to the
square to reclaim their democracy.

![Nope.](2014004-ntc-b-0061280.jpg ' ')

While both of these stories have kernels of truth -- events happen, and people
inspire -- they are fundamentally not how social change occurs. Instead, it's
movement-building work that pushes change forward.

![Training](2014004-ntc-b-0071280.jpg ' ')

Rosa Parks wasn't just tired -- she was trained.

![Physical and virtual](2014004-ntc-b-0081280.jpg ' ')

The Egyptian revolution didn't just happen, it was preceded by years of student
organizing.

![Strategy](2014004-ntc-b-0091280.jpg ' ')

The most successful social change movements didn't just get lucky or figure out
how to use the newest tools, they were built through concerted strategic
planning. Our work for change can draw on that history and experience.

![Catalyst planning](2014004-ntc-b-0101280.jpg ' ')

Catalyst moments might be unplanned, but the infrastructure can be built.

![Sustainability](2014004-ntc-b-0111280.jpg ' ')

In our organizations, we tend to privilege one set of actions over the other. We
focus on important task-based work like website development, fundraising,
communications, and the campaign strategy I just mentioned.

![Maintenance work](2014004-ntc-b-0121280.jpg ' ')

But there's more to an organization and more to a movement than that. There's
another group of endeavors sometimes called maintenance work, and it flies under
the radar even though it's crucial to keeping our campaigns afloat.

![Gardening](2014004-ntc-b-0131280.jpg ' ')

Maintenance work involves things like leadership development, facilitating
communication, conflict resolution, anti-oppression work, and visioning, the
things that fertilize our movements.

![Certified expert](2014004-ntc-b-0141280.jpg ' ')

We often privilege task work over maintenance work. Community knowledge and
strategic knowledge is devalued in favor of technical knowledge, because
technical knowledge can be more easily measured.

![Certified expert white men](2014004-ntc-b-0151280.jpg ' ')

Meanwhile, movement-building work is disproportionately done by women, leaving
men in the "important" and visible roles.

![Gatekeepers](2014004-ntc-b-0161280.jpg ' ')

At its worst, a specialization of knowledge leads to accumulation of informal,
unacknowledged power through gatekeeping.

![Gatekeeper techies](2014004-ntc-b-0171280.jpg ' ')

Or to put it another way, "We'll launch that campaign when I'm ready to update
the website for you."

![Solidarity](2014004-ntc-b-0181280.jpg ' ')

In our organizations, we should be striving toward social change, not startup
culture. We should cultivate sustainable work. We should commit to
anti-oppression work so we don't replicate the unequal society we're trying to
improve. We should provide benefits rather than relying on a precarious
workforce of independent contractors. We should _pay our interns_. We should
allow staff to unionize, or become a worker-owned collective.

![Capitalism is crisis](2014004-ntc-b-0191280.jpg ' ')

And in general, we should remember that social change is not a business. We
should be ruthless in stealing ideas from the business community, but we should
not expect them to work for us just because they made people some money.

![Good social movement history](2014004-ntc-b-0201280.jpg ' ')

In closing, my one piece of advice is in addition to all the
[Twitter](/tags/twitter/) guides and fundraising how-tos in your tool belt,
explore some movement history. Whether it's _Poor People's Movements_ about work
against economic injustice, _I've Got the Light of Freedom_ or _Southern Labor
and Black Civil Rights_ about the black-led freedom struggle

![Green Memes organizing guide](2014004-ntc-b-0211280.jpg ' ')

Or maybe my little article in
[this recent publication by Green Memes](https://greenmemesteam.tumblr.com/guide).
Investigate how sustainable social change has transpired in the past, and you'll
be closer to effecting change in the future.
