hugo/content/blog/2006-12-04/index.md, before:

---
title: 'The theory of bottom-up social networking'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2006-12-04'
# lastmod: '2022-07-18' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'theory-bottom-up-social-networking' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/061204'
description: 'Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly
  insurmountable problem can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have
  a stake in an issue. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up,
  open-source collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has
  proprietary ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a
  constant generation of awareness and ideas. Social media can be "a tool for
  mobilizing people for different kinds of action."' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly insurmountable
  problem can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have a stake in an
  issue. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up, open-source
  collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has proprietary
  ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a constant
  generation of awareness and ideas. Social media can be "a tool for mobilizing
  people for different kinds of action."' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'grass-gutter_flickr-dustpuppy72.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Grass growing near a gutter.' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'Dustpuppy72'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'grass-gutter_flickr-dustpuppy72.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - MySpace
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - social media
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - social change
  - social justice
  - MySpace

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-12'
---

Recently, the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20061229164737/http://www.genocideintervention.net/index.php)’s
efforts in “social networking” — things like MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and
del.icio.us — have been attracting a fair amount of attention. I was invited to
write guest posts for the
[Democracy in Action blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20090918215435/http://blog.democracyinaction.org/comments.jsp?blog_entry_KEY=21711)
and
[Idealware](https://web.archive.org/web/20070612180331/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php)
(a fleshed-out and updated version of the DiA post) and was asked to present at
the
[DC NetSquared MeetUp](https://web.archive.org/web/20061018160306/http://netsquared.meetup.com/2/calendar/5079363/)
and the
[Internet Advocacy Roundtable](https://web.archive.org/web/20061028005612/http://www.internetadvocacycenter.com:80/education/roundtable.html).

That all follows some
[more general ideas on blogging](https://web.archive.org/web/20070922003030/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/quixotic/can-blogging-stop-genocide)
that I wrote as an introduction to the NetSquared national conference last May
(see also a
{{< deadlink "PDF of the brochure" "dl://genocideintervention.net/members/docs/netact.pdf" >}}
distributed to attendees).

Today, Joshua Levy at Personal Democracy Forum posts the
“[rules for using MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717032434/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116)”
derived from interviews with me and with Scott Goodstein, another online
organizer who has done some amazing work with
[Save the Internet](https://web.archive.org/web/20070709102431/http://www.myspace.com/savetheinternet),
[Save1800Suicide](https://web.archive.org/web/20081217003042/http://www.myspace.com/save1800suicide)
and the
[Military Free Zone](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708173159/http://www.militaryfreezone.org/).
(Scott was also the person who originally contacted GI-Net about collaborating
with the band [Anti-Flag](http://www.anti-flag.com/) on a Darfur essay included
in their newest album.)

One thing I have been emphasizing in all of these presentations and interviews
has been the idea of **using social networking as a “bottom-up” way of online
mobilization** — in the words of GI-Net’s mission, “empowering individuals and
communities with the tools” to effect change.

Salient quote from
[Joshua's article](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717032434/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116):

> Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly insurmountable problem
> can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have a stake in an issue.
>
> The Genocide Intervention Network links to a list of “ten things you can do to
> stop genocide.” Ivan Boothe argues that these steps, broken down into easily
> digestible chunks, give people an easy way to participate.
>
> Although they also link to the Genocide Intervention Network’s main web site,
> that isn’t always the point. “A number of these steps aren’t even within our
> organization,” Boothe says. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up,
> open-source collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has
> proprietary ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a
> constant generation of awareness and ideas.
>
> A MySpace page, says Boothe, isn’t simply an advertisement for an
> organization, “it’s a tool for mobilizing people for different kinds
> of action.”

I don’t by any means consider myself an expert (personally I find myself less
interested in MySpace than you might expect — but then again I’m a techie who
hates cell phones, so maybe that’s not a surprise) but I do think there’s a lot
to be accomplished in this space.

I think organizations just have to stay focused on empowering their members
rather than simply advertising to them, and really being willing engaging them
in a constructive way.

Many of the
{{< deadlink "approaches to social networking" "dl://www.associatedcontent.com/article/79084/myspace_brings_humanitarian_organization.html" >}}
seem to involve nothing more than acquiring banner space:

> If anyone out in the world needs help, all they have to do is look to MySpace.
> You just have to get up on the wall at MySpace, and represent. Good things
> will happen.

Yes, you can reach a large audience with MySpace, and statistically, with a
large enough audience you will have talented people volunteer their services.
But that’s not “social networking,” it’s just advertising — if nonprofits could
easily and cheaply fly banner advertisements behind airplanes in the world’s
major cities, they would probably get a lot of volunteers, too. The only
difference in this case is that it’s electronic and (relatively) free.

And — as our organization has certainly found out — getting a lot of volunteers
often means getting a lot of people wanting to do things you don’t do or can’t
do (like volunteering to go to Darfur, or raising money for guns for rebels, or
adopting orphaned Darfurian children). Getting a lot of exposure all of a sudden
can overwhelm a nonprofit, and if there isn’t a clear understanding already in
place about how to effectively mobilize people toward actions that will make a
positive difference, then I would be worried about getting distracted by chasing
benefit concerts and bake sales all over the world. Enthusiastic supporters are
great, but sometimes you have to channel them in the right direction.

Finally, even if online organizing dovetails well with community organizing, the
mobilizing of third-party advocates only effects change if that mobilization is
directed in a useful direction.[^1] You might get a lot of people to sign a
petition, but does that actually aid the community you supposedly help? You
might attract a lot of donations, but does that actually support the people you
say you represent? **These are classic nonprofit challenges that don’t go away
simply through electronic networking.**

Online organizing doesn’t replace real on-the-ground community organizing or
empowerment. (This is actually one of my concerns with the
[Second Life nonprofit fad](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2006/07/an_interview_wi.html),
but that’s for another post.) Action online only matters if it can be translated
into the real world, or if it can develop social bonds that provide the
framework for real-world action.

### Social Networking to Stop Genocide

Some of GI-Net’s social networking campaigns online:

- [MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20070302163843/http://myspace.com/genocideintervention)
- {{< deadlink "Facebook" "dl://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2204803189" >}}
- {{< deadlink "del.icio.us" "dl://del.icio.us/antigenocide" >}} and
  [Magnolia](https://web.archive.org/web/20070619111521/http://ma.gnolia.com/people/antigenocide)
- [LiveJournal](https://endgenocide.livejournal.com/profile)
- [Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/genocideintervention)

[^1]:
    Interestingly, there have been very few effective online campaigns (using
    SNS or otherwise) with organizations that directly represent the communities
    they organize (e.g. homeless rights movements as opposed to advocates from
    the Global North raising money for Africa). The big one that comes to mind
    is the immigrants rights marches in the United States. Yet in that case,
    most of the mobilization came from
    [radio DJs and existing labor ties](https://www.thenation.com/article/archive/voices-new-movimiento/),
    not the Internet. And when social networking did come into play, such as the
    [student walkouts](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/28/AR2006032800982.html)
    in Virginia and Maryland, they were largely decentralized, with no
    organization pointing the way or setting up MySpace profiles to encourage
    the movement.

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2006-12-04/index.md, after:

---
title: 'The theory of bottom-up social networking'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2006-12-04'
# lastmod: '2022-07-18' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'theory-bottom-up-social-networking' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/061204'
description: 'Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly
  insurmountable problem can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have
  a stake in an issue. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up,
  open-source collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has
  proprietary ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a
  constant generation of awareness and ideas. Social media can be "a tool for
  mobilizing people for different kinds of action."' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly insurmountable
  problem can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have a stake in an
  issue. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up, open-source
  collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has proprietary
  ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a constant
  generation of awareness and ideas. Social media can be "a tool for mobilizing
  people for different kinds of action."' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'grass-gutter_flickr-dustpuppy72.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Grass growing near a gutter.' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'Dustpuppy72'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'grass-gutter_flickr-dustpuppy72.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - social change
  - MySpace
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-12'
---

Recently, the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20061229164737/http://www.genocideintervention.net/index.php)’s
efforts in “social networking” — things like MySpace, Facebook, Flickr and
del.icio.us — have been attracting a fair amount of attention. I was invited to
write guest posts for the
[Democracy in Action blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20090918215435/http://blog.democracyinaction.org/comments.jsp?blog_entry_KEY=21711)
and
[Idealware](https://web.archive.org/web/20070612180331/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php)
(a fleshed-out and updated version of the DiA post) and was asked to present at
the
[DC NetSquared MeetUp](https://web.archive.org/web/20061018160306/http://netsquared.meetup.com/2/calendar/5079363/)
and the
[Internet Advocacy Roundtable](https://web.archive.org/web/20061028005612/http://www.internetadvocacycenter.com:80/education/roundtable.html).

That all follows some
[more general ideas on blogging](https://web.archive.org/web/20070922003030/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/quixotic/can-blogging-stop-genocide)
that I wrote as an introduction to the NetSquared national conference last May
(see also a
{{< deadlink "PDF of the brochure" "dl://genocideintervention.net/members/docs/netact.pdf" >}}
distributed to attendees).

Today, Joshua Levy at Personal Democracy Forum posts the
“[rules for using MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717032434/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116)”
derived from interviews with me and with Scott Goodstein, another online
organizer who has done some amazing work with
[Save the Internet](https://web.archive.org/web/20070709102431/http://www.myspace.com/savetheinternet),
[Save1800Suicide](https://web.archive.org/web/20081217003042/http://www.myspace.com/save1800suicide)
and the
[Military Free Zone](https://web.archive.org/web/20070708173159/http://www.militaryfreezone.org/).
(Scott was also the person who originally contacted GI-Net about collaborating
with the band [Anti-Flag](http://www.anti-flag.com/) on a Darfur essay included
in their newest album.)

One thing I have been emphasizing in all of these presentations and interviews
has been the idea of **using social networking as a “bottom-up” way of online
mobilization** — in the words of GI-Net’s mission, “empowering individuals and
communities with the tools” to effect change.

Salient quote from
[Joshua's article](https://web.archive.org/web/20070717032434/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116):

> Offering concrete ideas for how to solve a seemingly insurmountable problem
> can give people a sense that they, as individuals, have a stake in an issue.
>
> The Genocide Intervention Network links to a list of “ten things you can do to
> stop genocide.” Ivan Boothe argues that these steps, broken down into easily
> digestible chunks, give people an easy way to participate.
>
> Although they also link to the Genocide Intervention Network’s main web site,
> that isn’t always the point. “A number of these steps aren’t even within our
> organization,” Boothe says. This sort of advocacy is similar to bottom-up,
> open-source collaborative projects like Wikipedia, in which no one group has
> proprietary ownership over an idea or a product; instead, the goal is a
> constant generation of awareness and ideas.
>
> A MySpace page, says Boothe, isn’t simply an advertisement for an
> organization, “it’s a tool for mobilizing people for different kinds
> of action.”

I don’t by any means consider myself an expert (personally I find myself less
interested in MySpace than you might expect — but then again I’m a techie who
hates cell phones, so maybe that’s not a surprise) but I do think there’s a lot
to be accomplished in this space.

I think organizations just have to stay focused on empowering their members
rather than simply advertising to them, and really being willing engaging them
in a constructive way.

Many of the
{{< deadlink "approaches to social networking" "dl://www.associatedcontent.com/article/79084/myspace_brings_humanitarian_organization.html" >}}
seem to involve nothing more than acquiring banner space:

> If anyone out in the world needs help, all they have to do is look to MySpace.
> You just have to get up on the wall at MySpace, and represent. Good things
> will happen.

Yes, you can reach a large audience with MySpace, and statistically, with a
large enough audience you will have talented people volunteer their services.
But that’s not “social networking,” it’s just advertising — if nonprofits could
easily and cheaply fly banner advertisements behind airplanes in the world’s
major cities, they would probably get a lot of volunteers, too. The only
difference in this case is that it’s electronic and (relatively) free.

And — as our organization has certainly found out — getting a lot of volunteers
often means getting a lot of people wanting to do things you don’t do or can’t
do (like volunteering to go to Darfur, or raising money for guns for rebels, or
adopting orphaned Darfurian children). Getting a lot of exposure all of a sudden
can overwhelm a nonprofit, and if there isn’t a clear understanding already in
place about how to effectively mobilize people toward actions that will make a
positive difference, then I would be worried about getting distracted by chasing
benefit concerts and bake sales all over the world. Enthusiastic supporters are
great, but sometimes you have to channel them in the right direction.

Finally, even if online organizing dovetails well with community organizing, the
mobilizing of third-party advocates only effects change if that mobilization is
directed in a useful direction.[^1] You might get a lot of people to sign a
petition, but does that actually aid the community you supposedly help? You
might attract a lot of donations, but does that actually support the people you
say you represent? **These are classic nonprofit challenges that don’t go away
simply through electronic networking.**

Online organizing doesn’t replace real on-the-ground community organizing or
empowerment. (This is actually one of my concerns with the
[Second Life nonprofit fad](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2006/07/an_interview_wi.html),
but that’s for another post.) Action online only matters if it can be translated
into the real world, or if it can develop social bonds that provide the
framework for real-world action.

### Social Networking to Stop Genocide

Some of GI-Net’s social networking campaigns online:

- [MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20070302163843/http://myspace.com/genocideintervention)
- {{< deadlink "Facebook" "dl://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2204803189" >}}
- {{< deadlink "del.icio.us" "dl://del.icio.us/antigenocide" >}} and
  [Magnolia](https://web.archive.org/web/20070619111521/http://ma.gnolia.com/people/antigenocide)
- [LiveJournal](https://endgenocide.livejournal.com/profile)
- [Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/genocideintervention)

[^1]:
    Interestingly, there have been very few effective online campaigns (using
    SNS or otherwise) with organizations that directly represent the communities
    they organize (e.g. homeless rights movements as opposed to advocates from
    the Global North raising money for Africa). The big one that comes to mind
    is the immigrants rights marches in the United States. Yet in that case,
    most of the mobilization came from
    [radio DJs and existing labor ties](https://www.thenation.com/article/archive/voices-new-movimiento/),
    not the Internet. And when social networking did come into play, such as the
    [student walkouts](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/28/AR2006032800982.html)
    in Virginia and Maryland, they were largely decentralized, with no
    organization pointing the way or setting up MySpace profiles to encourage
    the movement.
