hugo/content/about.md, before:

---
title: About Ivan Boothe & Rootwork.org
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2021-08-12'
# lastmod: '2014-04-29' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'about'
# aliases:
#   -
description: "I'm into frontend engineering (especially back-of-the-frontend),
  creative social protest and radical nonviolent praxis. These things go
  together more than you think." # For SEO and social media snippets.

draft: false
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: false
showReadTime: false
showShare: false
---

<svg width="20" height="20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 6000 3810">
<title>Progress Pride flag by Daniel Quasar</title>
<rect fill="#750787" width="6000" height="3810"/>
<rect fill="#004dff" width="6000" height="3175"/>
<rect fill="#008026" width="6000" height="2540"/>
<rect fill="#ffed00" width="6000" height="1905"/>
<rect fill="#ff8c00" width="6000" height="1270"/>
<rect fill="#e40303" width="6000" height="635"/>
<polygon points="-1,960 950,1905 -1,2850" fill="#ffffff" />
<polygon points="-1,960 -1,480 1420,1905 -1,3330 -1,2850 950,1905" fill="#ffafc8" />
<polygon points="-1,480 -1,0 1912,1905 -1,3810 -1,3330 1420,1905 -1,480" fill="#74d7ee" />
<polygon points="-1,0 1912,1905 -1,3810 480,3810 2384,1905 480,0" fill="#613915" />
<polygon points="480,0 960,0 2864,1905 960,3810 480,3810 2384 1905 480,0" fill="#000000" />
</svg> Black Lives Matter ✊🏽 Trans Rights Are Human Rights ⛺ Houseless Neighbors Deserve Dignity

---

## Holy 🦎s and 🦄s, it's Ivan Boothe

_US-Pacific ☙ Multnomah, Tsinook & Cowlitz lands ☙ Portland, OR_

### Current projects

- **[Premail](https://premail.dev)**, an easy-to-use component-based build
  system for MJML, the email templating language, with Handlebars templating,
  Sass styles, and extra options.
- **[GET: Gulp, ES6, Tailwind](https://github.com/rootwork/GET)**, a kickstart
  template for modern TailwindCSS development.
- **[Hugo Module Site](https://github.com/rootwork/hugo-module-site)**, an
  example of how to use Hugo Modules in your Hugo site.
- **[rootwork/bash-scripts](https://github.com/rootwork/bash-scripts)**, helpful
  tools for image management, video manipulation, and image/video conversion.
- **[Responsive Tables Builder](https://github.com/rootwork/responsive-tables-builder)**,
  a tool for creating mobile-first, accessible, responsive HTML data tables from
  data files, with CSS and without JS.
- **[Radical Icons](https://gitlab.com/radicons/radicons)**, reusable SVG and
  PNG images for activist art and organizing.
- I've also been active in **Drupal** (especially nonprofit and
  community-oriented Drupal) since 2005.
  **[Find me at drupal.org.](https://www.drupal.org/u/rootwork)**

### Ask me about

- [Drupal (4.5 to 9)](https://www.drupal.org/)
- [nptech](https://www.nten.org/) (nonprofit/NGO tech)
- [accessibility](https://www.a11yproject.com/) (a11y) and
  [universal design](https://universaldesign.ie/What-is-Universal-Design/The-7-Principles/)
  (also sometimes called inclusive design)
- [MJML](https://mjml.io/) and email coding generally
- [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/)
- [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and modern CSS
- [Gulp 4](https://gulpjs.com/)
- [Back of the frontend](https://css-tricks.com/front-of-the-front-back-of-the-front/)
  Nodejs
- [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)

Also moderately experienced with bash scripting (and
[zsh](https://www.zsh.org/)), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), SVGs and
animation, [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/),
[CiviCRM](https://civicrm.org/), and using Linux in day-to-day work and
development.

<!-- [![Drupal](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/drupal/drupal-plain-wordmark.svg)](https://www.drupal.org/) [![nodejs](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg)](https://nodejs.org) [![gulp](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/gulp/gulp-plain.svg)](https://gulpjs.com) [![sass](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/sass/sass-original.svg)](https://sass-lang.com) [![html5](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg)](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/) [![css3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg)](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/) [![javascript](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) [![hugo](https://api.iconify.design/logos-hugo.svg)](https://gohugo.io/) [![tailwind](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-plain.svg)](https://tailwindcss.com/) [![bash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/handlebars/handlebars-original-wordmark.svg)](https://handlebarsjs.com/) [![bash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/bash/bash-original.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/) [![git](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/git/git-original-wordmark.svg)](https://git-scm.com/) [![linux](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg)](https://www.linux.org/) -->

### Coding is just a small part of who I am

Technology is a means to an end, and shiny tech is not always the best means.

I've worked as a
[human rights advocate](https://web.archive.org/web/20080131080116/http://www.genocideintervention.net/),
a
[community organizer](https://web.archive.org/web/20111226083543/http://www.casinofreephilly.org:80/),
and a [nonprofit communications manager](https://forusa.org/). I've been on the
board of a [justice studies association](https://www.peacejusticestudies.org/),
helped
[nominate people for the Nobel Peace Prize](https://www.afsc.org/content/afsc-and-nobel-peace-prize),
wrote about
[third-party nonviolent intervention](https://works.swarthmore.edu/fac-soc-anth/29/)
and used
[electronic civil disobedience to fight insecure voting systems](https://web.archive.org/web/20050204141450/https://www.why-war.com/features/2003/11/diebold_analyzed.html).

Really all my technological expertise and interest stems from those larger
objectives for social change.

I'm also active in 🚲 [re-thinking urban spaces](https://www.streetsblog.org/),
🥕 [local food cooperatives](https://www.peoples.coop/), and 🔔
[semi-professional handbell performance](https://www.bellsofthecascades.org/about).

<!--
### Stats

Leaderboards are harmful to open-source development and sustainable communities
generally (read Cory Doctorow's
[_Walkaway_](https://www.worldcat.org/title/walkaway-a-novel/oclc/1159178249&referer=brief_results))
but insofar as some folks feel they need impersonal metrics of comparison, here
are mine:

![GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=rootwork&custom_title=This+means+nothing:+Ivan+Boothe+%40rootwork+on+GitHub&show_icons=true&locale=en&count_private=true&theme=radical&title_color=eeeeee&text_color=eeeeee&icon_color=eeeeee&hide_border=true&border_radius=25&bg_color=30,312E81,881337,1E3A8A)
-->

Commit message:

Updating and simplifying descriptions and summaries
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/about.md, after:

---
title: About Ivan Boothe & Rootwork.org
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2021-08-12'
# lastmod: '2014-04-29' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'about'
aliases:
  - about-ivan-boothe

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  I'm into frontend engineering (especially back-of-the-frontend), creative
  social protest and radical nonviolent praxis. These things go together more
  than you think.

draft: false
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: false
showReadTime: false
showShare: false
---

<svg width="20" height="20" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 6000 3810">
<title>Progress Pride flag by Daniel Quasar</title>
<rect fill="#750787" width="6000" height="3810"/>
<rect fill="#004dff" width="6000" height="3175"/>
<rect fill="#008026" width="6000" height="2540"/>
<rect fill="#ffed00" width="6000" height="1905"/>
<rect fill="#ff8c00" width="6000" height="1270"/>
<rect fill="#e40303" width="6000" height="635"/>
<polygon points="-1,960 950,1905 -1,2850" fill="#ffffff" />
<polygon points="-1,960 -1,480 1420,1905 -1,3330 -1,2850 950,1905" fill="#ffafc8" />
<polygon points="-1,480 -1,0 1912,1905 -1,3810 -1,3330 1420,1905 -1,480" fill="#74d7ee" />
<polygon points="-1,0 1912,1905 -1,3810 480,3810 2384,1905 480,0" fill="#613915" />
<polygon points="480,0 960,0 2864,1905 960,3810 480,3810 2384 1905 480,0" fill="#000000" />
</svg> Black Lives Matter ✊🏽 Trans Rights Are Human Rights ⛺ Houseless Neighbors Deserve Dignity

---

## Holy 🦎s and 🦄s, it's Ivan Boothe

_US-Pacific ☙ Multnomah, Tsinook & Cowlitz lands ☙ Portland, OR_

### Current projects

- **[Premail](https://premail.dev)**, an easy-to-use component-based build
  system for MJML, the email templating language, with Handlebars templating,
  Sass styles, and extra options.
- **[GET: Gulp, ES6, Tailwind](https://github.com/rootwork/GET)**, a kickstart
  template for modern TailwindCSS development.
- **[Hugo Module Site](https://github.com/rootwork/hugo-module-site)**, an
  example of how to use Hugo Modules in your Hugo site.
- **[rootwork/bash-scripts](https://github.com/rootwork/bash-scripts)**, helpful
  tools for image management, video manipulation, and image/video conversion.
- **[Responsive Tables Builder](https://github.com/rootwork/responsive-tables-builder)**,
  a tool for creating mobile-first, accessible, responsive HTML data tables from
  data files, with CSS and without JS.
- **[Radical Icons](https://gitlab.com/radicons/radicons)**, reusable SVG and
  PNG images for activist art and organizing.
- I've also been active in **Drupal** (especially nonprofit and
  community-oriented Drupal) since 2005.
  **[Find me at drupal.org.](https://www.drupal.org/u/rootwork)**

### Ask me about

- [Drupal (4.5 to 9)](https://www.drupal.org/)
- [nptech](https://www.nten.org/) (nonprofit/NGO tech)
- [accessibility](https://www.a11yproject.com/) (a11y) and
  [universal design](https://universaldesign.ie/What-is-Universal-Design/The-7-Principles/)
  (also sometimes called inclusive design)
- [MJML](https://mjml.io/) and email coding generally
- [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/)
- [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and modern CSS
- [Gulp 4](https://gulpjs.com/)
- [Back of the frontend](https://css-tricks.com/front-of-the-front-back-of-the-front/)
  Nodejs
- [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)

Also moderately experienced with bash scripting (and
[zsh](https://www.zsh.org/)), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), SVGs and
animation, [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/),
[CiviCRM](https://civicrm.org/), and using Linux in day-to-day work and
development.

<!-- [![Drupal](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/drupal/drupal-plain-wordmark.svg)](https://www.drupal.org/) [![nodejs](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg)](https://nodejs.org) [![gulp](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/gulp/gulp-plain.svg)](https://gulpjs.com) [![sass](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/sass/sass-original.svg)](https://sass-lang.com) [![html5](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg)](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/) [![css3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg)](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/) [![javascript](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) [![hugo](https://api.iconify.design/logos-hugo.svg)](https://gohugo.io/) [![tailwind](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-plain.svg)](https://tailwindcss.com/) [![bash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/handlebars/handlebars-original-wordmark.svg)](https://handlebarsjs.com/) [![bash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/bash/bash-original.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/) [![git](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/git/git-original-wordmark.svg)](https://git-scm.com/) [![linux](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg)](https://www.linux.org/) -->

### Coding is just a small part of who I am

Technology is a means to an end, and shiny tech is not always the best means.

I've worked as a
[human rights advocate](https://web.archive.org/web/20080131080116/http://www.genocideintervention.net/),
a
[community organizer](https://web.archive.org/web/20111226083543/http://www.casinofreephilly.org:80/),
and a [nonprofit communications manager](https://forusa.org/). I've been on the
board of a [justice studies association](https://www.peacejusticestudies.org/),
helped
[nominate people for the Nobel Peace Prize](https://www.afsc.org/content/afsc-and-nobel-peace-prize),
wrote about
[third-party nonviolent intervention](https://works.swarthmore.edu/fac-soc-anth/29/)
and used
[electronic civil disobedience to fight insecure voting systems](https://web.archive.org/web/20050204141450/https://www.why-war.com/features/2003/11/diebold_analyzed.html).

Really all my technological expertise and interest stems from those larger
objectives for social change.

I'm also active in 🚲 [re-thinking urban spaces](https://www.streetsblog.org/),
🥕 [local food cooperatives](https://www.peoples.coop/), and 🔔
[semi-professional handbell performance](https://www.bellsofthecascades.org/about).

<!--
### Stats

Leaderboards are harmful to open-source development and sustainable communities
generally (read Cory Doctorow's
[_Walkaway_](https://www.worldcat.org/title/walkaway-a-novel/oclc/1159178249&referer=brief_results))
but insofar as some folks feel they need impersonal metrics of comparison, here
are mine:

![GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=rootwork&custom_title=This+means+nothing:+Ivan+Boothe+%40rootwork+on+GitHub&show_icons=true&locale=en&count_private=true&theme=radical&title_color=eeeeee&text_color=eeeeee&icon_color=eeeeee&hide_border=true&border_radius=25&bg_color=30,312E81,881337,1E3A8A)
-->
