hugo/content/privacy.md, before:

---
title: Privacy policy
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2022-02-01'
effective_date: 'Feb. 1, 2022' # Used verbatim in the post
# lastmod: '2014-04-29' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'privacy'
aliases:
  - 'privacypolicy'
  - 'privacy_policy'
  - 'security'
description: 'Rootwork.org privacy and security' # For SEO and social media snippets.

draft: false
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: false
showReadTime: true
showShare: false
---

**Effective Date: {{< param effective_date >}}**

Rootwork.org is committed to protecting the privacy of visitors to its website.
We have established this privacy policy to explain what information we collect
through our website and how it is used.

Rootwork.org is authored in Hugo, a static-site generator with
[a strong position on privacy](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/).

### Information we do (not) collect

Rootwork.org does not set cookies or otherwise track you with analytics.

We do not provide opt-out mechanisms for
[<abbr title="General Data Protection Regulation (European Union)">GDPR</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation),
[<abbr title="California Online Privacy Protection Act of 2003">CalOPPA</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_Privacy_Protection_Act)
or
[<abbr title="Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (Canada)">PIPEDA</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Information_Protection_and_Electronic_Documents_Act)
as nothing is being collected.

### Third-party services

Rootwork.org is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork.org).
While we do not have access to web logs about visitors, GitHub does. These logs
might include information such as your reported IP address, date and times of
access, and pages viewed. If you are concerned about this data, consider
[using a VPN](https://web.archive.org/web/20210814070115/https://victoria.dev/blog/three-rules-for-choosing-a-vpn-that-takes-your-privacy-seriously/).

When third-party social media is embedded (such as YouTube or Twitter) we use
Hugo's "simple" and "do not track"
[options](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/#the-privacy-settings-explained),
although some forms of tracking from these networks may still slip through.

If you click on social media icons to share content from this site or follow
Rootwork.org, you may be tracked by these services as well.

### Protecting your privacy

If third-party tracking concerns you, we recommend
[uBlock Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/),
[Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/), and Firefox's
[Facebook Container](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/facebookcontainer/)
to restrict or completely block what these third parties are able to collect
about you. To see what trackers see about you, check out the
<abbr title="Electronic Frontier Foundation">EFF</abbr>'s
[Cover Your Tracks](https://coveryourtracks.eff.org/) project.

For even more thorough privacy options, the EFF's
[Surveillance Self Defense guide](https://ssd.eff.org/) is an invaluable
resource.

### Updates

Any changes, additions or deletions to this page will be marked by a new
"Effective Date" noted at the top of this page.

Commit message:

updating and clarifying privacy policy

hugo/content/privacy.md, after:

---
title: Privacy policy
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2022-07-01'
effective_date: 'July 1, 2022' # Used verbatim in the post
# lastmod: '2014-04-29' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'privacy'
aliases:
  - 'privacypolicy'
  - 'privacy_policy'
  - 'security'
description: 'Rootwork.org privacy and security' # For SEO and social media snippets.

draft: false
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: false
showReadTime: true
showShare: false
---

**Effective Date: {{< param effective_date >}}**

Rootwork.org is authored in Hugo, a static-site generator with
[a strong position on privacy](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/).

### Information we do (not) collect

Rootwork.org does not set cookies or otherwise track you with analytics.

We do not provide opt-out mechanisms for
[<abbr title="General Data Protection Regulation (European Union)">GDPR</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation),
[<abbr title="California Online Privacy Protection Act of 2003">CalOPPA</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_Privacy_Protection_Act)
or
[<abbr title="Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (Canada)">PIPEDA</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Information_Protection_and_Electronic_Documents_Act)
as nothing is being collected.

### Third-party services

Rootwork.org is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/rootwork/rootwork.org).
While we do not have access to web logs about visitors, GitHub does. These logs
might include information such as your reported IP address, date and times of
access, and pages viewed. If you are concerned about this data, consider
[using a VPN](https://web.archive.org/web/20210814070115/https://victoria.dev/blog/three-rules-for-choosing-a-vpn-that-takes-your-privacy-seriously/).

When third-party social media is embedded (such as YouTube or Twitter) we use
Hugo's "simple" and "do not track"
[options](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/#the-privacy-settings-explained),
although some forms of tracking from these networks may still slip through. See
the next section for options on blocking these sites.

If you click on social media icons to share content from this site or follow
Rootwork.org, you may be tracked by these services as well.

### Protecting your privacy

If third-party tracking concerns you, we recommend
[uBlock Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/),
[Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/), and Firefox's
[Facebook Container](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/facebookcontainer/)
to restrict or completely block what these third parties are able to collect
about you. To see what trackers see about you, check out the
<abbr title="Electronic Frontier Foundation">EFF</abbr>'s
[Cover Your Tracks](https://coveryourtracks.eff.org/) project.

For even more thorough privacy options, the EFF's
[Surveillance Self Defense guide](https://ssd.eff.org/) is an invaluable
resource.

### Updates

Any changes, additions or deletions to this page will be marked by a new
"Effective Date" noted at the top of this page.
