hugo/content/blog/2014/04/29/index.md, before:

---
title: "Join me at the Devsigner conference in Portland this May: Designers and developers join forces!"
date: "2014-04-29"

slug: "join-me-devsigner-conference-portland-may-designers-developers-join-forces"
draft: false
featured: true
toc: false

# menu: main

featureImage: "./devsignerslide1.jpg"
# thumbnail: "./devsignerslide1.jpg"
# shareImage: "/images/path/share.png"

categories:
  - Frontend Development
  - Planet Drupal
tags:
  - Devsigner
  - Drupal
---

**Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want to develop some new left-right brain skills.**

We're looking for folks to break out of their familiar meetup silos and apply their knowledge across the crafts of development and design.

[**Join me at Devsigner in Portland, Oregon, May 23-25!**](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)

Tickets are [now on sale](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/), and [session submissions are open](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/) until this Friday, May 2!

![Devsigner: Portland, OR, May 23--25](./devsigner2014logo.png)

### Sessions will include things like:

*   responsive web development for graphic designers
*   color theory for coders
*   industrial design for web apps
*   why bad user experience is a bug
*   what web technologies can learn from analog design
*   iterative design in open-source communities
*   your great idea --- [submit a session](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ "Submit your session!") now!

### We're going to mix it up with a variety of session formats:

*   Traditional presentations (45--60 minutes)
*   Panel and roundtable discussions (45--60 minutes)
*   Hands-on, deep-dive workshops (2 hours Friday, 3 hours Saturday and Sunday)
*   Lightning talks on Saturday night (more information to come)

We're also kicking off the event with a keynote presentation from a surprise guest!

### Who should attend?

*   graphic designers who want to hone their web design chops
*   developers who want to the beauty of their projects to match the beauty of their code
*   artists who are tired of ugly or unusable websites
*   branding experts who want to tell developers a story about the cobbler's children
*   Sass/Puppet/Angular/Grunt/Node evangelists who want to spread the good word
*   [you](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ "Register Today!")!

I hope to see you there!

Commit message:

Formatting year/month archives; updating blog archetype

hugo/content/blog/2014/04/29/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Join me at the Devsigner conference in Portland this May: Designers and developers join forces!'
author: 'Ivan Boothe'
date: '2021-08-16'
# lastmod: '2021-08-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'join-me-devsigner-conference-portland-may-designers-developers-join-forces'
# aliases:
#   -
description: 'Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want to develop some new left-right brain skills.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want to develop some new left-right brain skills.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false
featured: true
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: './devsignerslide1.jpg' # Top image on post.
# thumbnail: './devsignerslide1.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: './share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: true # Override global value for showing the figure label.

categories:
  - Frontend Development
  - Planet Drupal
tags:
  - Devsigner
  - Drupal
keywords: # For SEO
  - Drupal
  - frontend development

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2021'
month: '2021-08'

---

**Devsigner is celebrating the cross-overs, the multi-disciplinarians, the coders who paint and the designers who send pull requests --- and those who want to develop some new left-right brain skills.**

We're looking for folks to break out of their familiar meetup silos and apply their knowledge across the crafts of development and design.

[**Join me at Devsigner in Portland, Oregon, May 23-25!**](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/)

Tickets are [now on sale](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/), and [session submissions are open](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/) until this Friday, May 2!

![Devsigner: Portland, OR, May 23--25](./devsigner2014logo.png)

### Sessions will include things like:

*   responsive web development for graphic designers
*   color theory for coders
*   industrial design for web apps
*   why bad user experience is a bug
*   what web technologies can learn from analog design
*   iterative design in open-source communities
*   your great idea --- [submit a session](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ "Submit your session!") now!

### We're going to mix it up with a variety of session formats:

*   Traditional presentations (45--60 minutes)
*   Panel and roundtable discussions (45--60 minutes)
*   Hands-on, deep-dive workshops (2 hours Friday, 3 hours Saturday and Sunday)
*   Lightning talks on Saturday night (more information to come)

We're also kicking off the event with a keynote presentation from a surprise guest!

### Who should attend?

*   graphic designers who want to hone their web design chops
*   developers who want to the beauty of their projects to match the beauty of their code
*   artists who are tired of ugly or unusable websites
*   branding experts who want to tell developers a story about the cobbler's children
*   Sass/Puppet/Angular/Grunt/Node evangelists who want to spread the good word
*   [you](https://web.archive.org/web/20140719090242/http://devsignercon.com/ "Register Today!")!

I hope to see you there!
