hugo/content/blog/2007-10-11/index.md, before:

---
title:
  'Organizing rather than mobilizing: Using social networks for
  constituency-building'
author: ivan
date: '2007-10-11'
# lastmod: '2022-07-17' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'organizing-rather-mobilizing-using-social-networks-constituency-building' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/071011

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  For the Genocide Intervention Network, involvement in the "social web" is
  really an outgrowth of our entire mission: To form the first anti-genocide
  constituency, and to empower our members with the tools to prevent and stop
  genocide. The words "constituency" and "empower" are key. We want an educated,
  active movement of people interested in preventing and stopping genocide. Our
  members need to be able to think for themselves on the issue, not to simply be
  another name on a list, but to be a hub in an ever-expanding network.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  For the Genocide Intervention Network, involvement in the "social web" is
  really an outgrowth of our entire mission: To form the first anti-genocide
  constituency, and to empower our members with the tools to prevent and stop
  genocide.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'bokeh-remix_flickr-kevin_dooley.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Bokeh remix' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [kevin
  dooley](https://www.flickr.com/photos/12836528@N00).'
thumbnail: 'bokeh-remix_flickr-kevin_dooley.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-10'
---

Britt Bravo from
[NetSquared](https://web.archive.org/web/20070920094210/http://www.netsquared.org/)
asks,
"[What is the return on investment of the social web for nonprofits?](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719222229/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/join-net2thinktank-what-return-investment-social-web-nonprofits)"

For the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710032847/http://www.genocideintervention.net/),
which is the organization I'm involved with that has been most active in social
networking, involvement in the "social web" is really an outgrowth of our entire
mission: To form the first anti-genocide constituency, and to empower our
members with the tools to prevent and stop genocide.

The words "constituency" and "empower" are key.

**We're not simply looking for a mailing list or an ATM -- we want an educated,
active movement of people interested in preventing and stopping genocide.**

Our members need to be able to think for themselves on the issue -- to hold
events in their communities, motivate others to take action, press their elected
representatives to take stand -- not to simply be another name on a list, but to
be a hub in an ever-expanding network.

This is really the principle behind the social web:
[it's all about conversations](https://cluetrain.com/book/95-theses.html). And
for us, conversations are the perfect way to build a vibrant, effective
movement.

When GI-Net began, we were primary student-oriented, and so organizing in places
like Facebook was really a necessity. But as we grew, it became clear that
focusing on these types of networks, in which we were able to supply members
with knowledge but they were also empowered to speak for themselves, could be a
powerful way to grow our impact exponentially.

In fact, effective social movements have
[always](https://www.worldcat.org/title/origins-of-the-civil-rights-movement-black-communities-organizing-for-change/oclc/932325537&referer=brief_results 'Aldon Morris: The Origins of the Civil Rights Movement')
been
[based](https://www.worldcat.org/title/poor-peoples-movements-why-they-succeed-how-they-fail/oclc/1031967436&referer=brief_results "Frances Fox Piven and Richard Cloward: Poor People's Movements")
on affective
[social ties](https://www.worldcat.org/title/race-rebels-culture-politics-and-the-black-working-class/oclc/925010414&referer=brief_results 'Robin D.G. Kelley: Race Rebels'),
and fears of
[postmodern atomization](https://www.worldcat.org/title/bowling-alone-the-collapse-and-revival-of-american-community/oclc/1225886940&referer=brief_results 'Robert Putnam: Bowling Alone')
aside, twenty-first century movements won't be any different.

When I
[first started writing about this](https://web.archive.org/web/20080618234425/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php),
however, I explained an important requirement for engagement in the social web
to succeed -- and this is still true for us today:

> There's a mentality shift required to fully engage with social networking and
> community content sites: sometimes, you have to let go. It's true that someone
> could start posting pictures on Flickr of irrelevant things and tag them
> "antigenocide," or that some of our biggest fans hosting the YouTube video on
> MySpace might have profiles that would make some of our donors cringe.
>
> Perhaps even more significantly, it's possible that some of the people who
> encounter us on these sites never make it to our main website, never sign up
> for a newsletter, never complete an action, and never make a donation.
>
> For us, it goes back to our mission: to empower our members to prevent and
> stop genocide, and in so doing, to create an educated anti-genocide
> constituency.
>
> While we do, of course, want to increase our membership rolls and make
> ever-larger donations to civilian protection, in some respects it's not always
> necessary for people to perform every anti-genocide action through our
> organization.
>
> If our videos or emails or profiles get people talking more substantially
> about genocide -- and the concrete ways in which they can actually prevent and
> stop genocide -- then in some sense whether they end up on our mailing list is
> somewhat beside the point. Through their knowledge they will engage others,
> and ultimately enhance the anti-genocide movement we're helping to build.

In his
[profile](https://web.archive.org/web/20080621134439/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116)
of GI-Net and Catalyst Campaigns, Joshua Levy describes this approach as
"similar to bottom-up, open-source collaborative projects," and I think that's
exactly right. Our organization is engaged in a collaborative project with our
members, and while we may have particular resources or acquired expertise, it's
really their activism and passion that will build and drive the movement.

What it all comes down to is that we're focusing on organizing people into a
permanent anti-genocide movement (and much of that happens in a
[decentralized, self-organized](https://web.archive.org/web/20080516033252/http://www.idealware.org/articles/participatory_tools.php)
sort of way) rather than simply mobilizing people for a particular event or
campaign and then sending them home. If you just need bodies at a rally, names
on a petition or donations in your coffers, **mobilizing** through traditional
means will work great. But if you need an active, educated and effective
movement, **organizing** through social webs has the potential to create much
more lasting change.

### The Genocide Intervention Network on the Social Web

- [MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20080726053628/http://myspace.com/genocideintervention)
- {{< deadlink "Facebook" "dl://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2204803189" >}}
- [change.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20070501040009/http://www.change.org/genocideintervention)
- [LiveJournal](https://endgenocide.livejournal.com/profile)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/antigenocide)
- [Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/genocideintervention)

### Previous Articles

- [Using Social Networking to Stop Genocide](https://web.archive.org/web/20070612180331/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php)
  (Idealware), on the origins of GI-Net's approach.
- [Bottom-up social networking interview](/blog/2006/12/theory-bottom-social-networking),
  on why MySpace isn't like banner ads (see the second half).
- [Leveraging Social Networks for Progressive Organizing](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724202531/http://www.americanprogressaction.org/events/2007/noi.html)
  (New Organizing Institute), a panel discussion I was on talking about the
  possibilities for nonprofits using social networks. Sadly the video is no
  longer online, but you can read
  [this write-up of the panel](http://www.ddmcd.com/managing-technology/nonprofits-and-the-future-of-social-networking.html).
- [Notes from NTC: Leveraging the power of participatory media and the future of online outreach](/blog/2007/04/notes-ntc-participatory-media-future-online-outreach),
  on the related topic of user-generated media campaigns.

Commit message:

Adding new 'disable_feed' and 'unlisted' post params, and updating archetypes
Signed-off-by: Ivan Boothe <git@rootwork.org>

hugo/content/blog/2007-10-11/index.md, after:

---
title:
  'Organizing rather than mobilizing: Using social networks for
  constituency-building'
author: ivan
date: '2007-10-11'
# lastmod: '2022-07-17' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'organizing-rather-mobilizing-using-social-networks-constituency-building' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - /p/071011

# For the post as it appears in lists.
summary: >
  For the Genocide Intervention Network, involvement in the "social web" is
  really an outgrowth of our entire mission: To form the first anti-genocide
  constituency, and to empower our members with the tools to prevent and stop
  genocide. The words "constituency" and "empower" are key. We want an educated,
  active movement of people interested in preventing and stopping genocide. Our
  members need to be able to think for themselves on the issue, not to simply be
  another name on a list, but to be a hub in an ever-expanding network.

# For SEO and social media snippets (recommended 150-200 characters).
description: >
  For the Genocide Intervention Network, involvement in the "social web" is
  really an outgrowth of our entire mission: To form the first anti-genocide
  constituency, and to empower our members with the tools to prevent and stop
  genocide.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
disable_feed: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from RSS etc.
unlisted: false # Change to 'true' to exclude from search, lists, sitemaps, and feeds.

featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'bokeh-remix_flickr-kevin_dooley.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Bokeh remix' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [kevin
  dooley](https://www.flickr.com/photos/12836528@N00).'
thumbnail: 'bokeh-remix_flickr-kevin_dooley.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2007'
month: '2007-10'
---

Britt Bravo from
[NetSquared](https://web.archive.org/web/20070920094210/http://www.netsquared.org/)
asks,
"[What is the return on investment of the social web for nonprofits?](https://web.archive.org/web/20080719222229/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/britt-bravo/join-net2thinktank-what-return-investment-social-web-nonprofits)"

For the
[Genocide Intervention Network](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710032847/http://www.genocideintervention.net/),
which is the organization I'm involved with that has been most active in social
networking, involvement in the "social web" is really an outgrowth of our entire
mission: To form the first anti-genocide constituency, and to empower our
members with the tools to prevent and stop genocide.

The words "constituency" and "empower" are key.

**We're not simply looking for a mailing list or an ATM -- we want an educated,
active movement of people interested in preventing and stopping genocide.**

Our members need to be able to think for themselves on the issue -- to hold
events in their communities, motivate others to take action, press their elected
representatives to take stand -- not to simply be another name on a list, but to
be a hub in an ever-expanding network.

This is really the principle behind the social web:
[it's all about conversations](https://cluetrain.com/book/95-theses.html). And
for us, conversations are the perfect way to build a vibrant, effective
movement.

When GI-Net began, we were primary student-oriented, and so organizing in places
like Facebook was really a necessity. But as we grew, it became clear that
focusing on these types of networks, in which we were able to supply members
with knowledge but they were also empowered to speak for themselves, could be a
powerful way to grow our impact exponentially.

In fact, effective social movements have
[always](https://www.worldcat.org/title/origins-of-the-civil-rights-movement-black-communities-organizing-for-change/oclc/932325537&referer=brief_results 'Aldon Morris: The Origins of the Civil Rights Movement')
been
[based](https://www.worldcat.org/title/poor-peoples-movements-why-they-succeed-how-they-fail/oclc/1031967436&referer=brief_results "Frances Fox Piven and Richard Cloward: Poor People's Movements")
on affective
[social ties](https://www.worldcat.org/title/race-rebels-culture-politics-and-the-black-working-class/oclc/925010414&referer=brief_results 'Robin D.G. Kelley: Race Rebels'),
and fears of
[postmodern atomization](https://www.worldcat.org/title/bowling-alone-the-collapse-and-revival-of-american-community/oclc/1225886940&referer=brief_results 'Robert Putnam: Bowling Alone')
aside, twenty-first century movements won't be any different.

When I
[first started writing about this](https://web.archive.org/web/20080618234425/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php),
however, I explained an important requirement for engagement in the social web
to succeed -- and this is still true for us today:

> There's a mentality shift required to fully engage with social networking and
> community content sites: sometimes, you have to let go. It's true that someone
> could start posting pictures on Flickr of irrelevant things and tag them
> "antigenocide," or that some of our biggest fans hosting the YouTube video on
> MySpace might have profiles that would make some of our donors cringe.
>
> Perhaps even more significantly, it's possible that some of the people who
> encounter us on these sites never make it to our main website, never sign up
> for a newsletter, never complete an action, and never make a donation.
>
> For us, it goes back to our mission: to empower our members to prevent and
> stop genocide, and in so doing, to create an educated anti-genocide
> constituency.
>
> While we do, of course, want to increase our membership rolls and make
> ever-larger donations to civilian protection, in some respects it's not always
> necessary for people to perform every anti-genocide action through our
> organization.
>
> If our videos or emails or profiles get people talking more substantially
> about genocide -- and the concrete ways in which they can actually prevent and
> stop genocide -- then in some sense whether they end up on our mailing list is
> somewhat beside the point. Through their knowledge they will engage others,
> and ultimately enhance the anti-genocide movement we're helping to build.

In his
[profile](https://web.archive.org/web/20080621134439/http://www.personaldemocracy.com/node/1116)
of GI-Net and Catalyst Campaigns, Joshua Levy describes this approach as
"similar to bottom-up, open-source collaborative projects," and I think that's
exactly right. Our organization is engaged in a collaborative project with our
members, and while we may have particular resources or acquired expertise, it's
really their activism and passion that will build and drive the movement.

What it all comes down to is that we're focusing on organizing people into a
permanent anti-genocide movement (and much of that happens in a
[decentralized, self-organized](https://web.archive.org/web/20080516033252/http://www.idealware.org/articles/participatory_tools.php)
sort of way) rather than simply mobilizing people for a particular event or
campaign and then sending them home. If you just need bodies at a rally, names
on a petition or donations in your coffers, **mobilizing** through traditional
means will work great. But if you need an active, educated and effective
movement, **organizing** through social webs has the potential to create much
more lasting change.

### The Genocide Intervention Network on the Social Web

- [MySpace](https://web.archive.org/web/20080726053628/http://myspace.com/genocideintervention)
- {{< deadlink "Facebook" "dl://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=2204803189" >}}
- [change.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20070501040009/http://www.change.org/genocideintervention)
- [LiveJournal](https://endgenocide.livejournal.com/profile)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/antigenocide)
- [Flickr](https://flickr.com/photos/genocideintervention)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/genocideintervention)

### Previous Articles

- [Using Social Networking to Stop Genocide](https://web.archive.org/web/20070612180331/http://www.idealware.org/articles/social_networking_genocide.php)
  (Idealware), on the origins of GI-Net's approach.
- [Bottom-up social networking interview](/blog/2006/12/theory-bottom-social-networking),
  on why MySpace isn't like banner ads (see the second half).
- [Leveraging Social Networks for Progressive Organizing](https://web.archive.org/web/20080724202531/http://www.americanprogressaction.org/events/2007/noi.html)
  (New Organizing Institute), a panel discussion I was on talking about the
  possibilities for nonprofits using social networks. Sadly the video is no
  longer online, but you can read
  [this write-up of the panel](http://www.ddmcd.com/managing-technology/nonprofits-and-the-future-of-social-networking.html).
- [Notes from NTC: Leveraging the power of participatory media and the future of online outreach](/blog/2007/04/notes-ntc-participatory-media-future-online-outreach),
  on the related topic of user-generated media campaigns.
