hugo/content/blog/2009-11-13/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Government accountability through web 2.0: A case study'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2009-11-13'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'government-accountability-through-web-20-case-study' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/091113'
description: 'Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
  representatives from Save Darfur and the student network STAND for an
  unprecedented live Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website. The
  webcast was notable not just for its interactivity -- members of both STAND
  and Save Darfur were encouraged to submit questions, which were then asked
  directly of Gration on air -- but for its accountability.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
  representatives from Save Darfur and the student network STAND for an
  unprecedented live Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website. The
  webcast was notable not just for its interactivity -- members of both STAND
  and Save Darfur were encouraged to submit questions, which were then asked
  directly of Gration on air -- but for its accountability.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'meeting-feet_flickr-mripp.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Meeting with activists' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'mripp'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'meeting-feet_flickr-mripp.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - communications
  - Facebook
  - Twitter
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - communications
  - online communications
  - Facebook
  - Twitter

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-11'
---

![Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration, Samantha Power, and student activists](scott-gration-samantha-power_flickr-savedarfur.jpg)

This was originally posted on
[techPresident](https://web.archive.org/web/20120204074905/http://techpresident.com/blog-entry/sudan_case_study).

Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
representatives from
[Save Darfur](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201194307/http://savedarfur.org/)
and the student network [STAND](https://standnow.org/) for an unprecedented live
Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website.

The event served as the launch of an initiative the White House is calling
[Ask U.S.](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2009/11/04/%e2%80%9cask-us%e2%80%9d-engaging-sudan-strategy 'White House: Ask U.S., Engaging on Sudan Strategy'),
“an effort to reach out to the advocacy communities and to solicit questions on
the U.S. Sudan policy from activists deeply and passionately engaged” around
Sudan.

[Watch a recording of the webcast.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNSXeMkiZ_M 'Whitehouse.gov: Ask U.S. live webcast (YouTube)')

Save Darfur Coalition Executive Director Jerry Fowler and STAND Student Director
Layla Amjadi were joined by Samantha Power — now the National Security Council’s
Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, but known more widely as the author of
_“A Problem from Hell”: America and the Age of Genocide_, a history of the
United States’ response to mass atrocities from Armenia to Rwanda. Power herself
was an inspiration for many of the anti-genocide organizations which exist
today, including the two that participated in this online exchange.

_Full disclosure: I was a co-founder of the Genocide Intervention Network,
STAND’s parent organization, and worked there until 2008._

### Calling for transparency, pushing for accountability

**The webcast was notable not just for its interactivity — members of both STAND
and Save Darfur were encouraged to
[submit questions](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114043828/http://standnow.org/node/2503 'STAND: What questions would you like Layla to ask Gration and Power?'),
which were then asked directly of Gration on air — but for its accountability.**

Some anti-genocide activists have been
[critical of the Obama administration](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/09/28/AR2009092802336_pf.html "Washington Post: U.S. Envoy's Outreach to Sudan Is Criticized as Naive")
for positioning Darfur and Sudan as a prominent human rights issue during the
campaign, but
[taking little action](https://web.archive.org/web/20091125041222/http://www.genocideintervention.net:80/network/pressroom/pressreleases/2009/09/29/2864 'Sudan Advocacy Groups React To General Gration’s Statements to The Washington Post')
since the election. Here was a chance for anti-genocide activists to put the
White House’s point person on Sudan on the spot and demand answers.

**The responses from Gration — Power, other than introducing and concluding the
event, largely remained silent — were generally panned by activists watching the
chat via Twitter and Facebook.** “In his opening remarks Gration said ‘we owe
you answers’ — you still do,” said
{{< deadlink "Will Fischer" "dl://twitter.com/willcfischer/statuses/5599271449" >}}.
“I respect the hell out of Sam Power but I’m not going to buy Gration’s vague
answers just because she’s sitting there,” said Genocide Intervention Network
Director of Membership
[Janessa Goldbeck](https://twitter.com/jgoldbeck/status/5599046520).

Bec Hamilton, who is writing a book about the advocacy movement around Sudan and
has worked with the Genocide Intervention Network, reported that the questions
for Gration had to be
[submitted ahead of time](http://bechamilton.com/2009/11/09/ask-us-responding-to-activists-or-managing-them/ 'Bec Hamilton: Responding to activists or managing them?'),
so it’s a little surprising his answers weren’t more sure-footed. Hamilton
[said](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/11/11/gration-and-power-answer-activists-questions-on-sudan/ "ForeignPolicy.com: Gration and Power answer activists' questions on Sudan")
a former official at the State Department had seen the event as a way to
“manage” the “noise” of activists, but:

> As it turned out, the shoe was on the other foot. Activists were given the
> opportunity to ask follow-up questions, and they pursued that avenue with such
> vigor that any fear of them being co-opted by their well-publicized access to
> the White House ceased to be a concern. What was a concern was the
> administration’s inability to provide concrete answers to the advocates’
> questions.

**If the White House was hoping the webcast would placate activists who had been
critical of US policy on Sudan, it seemed to do just the opposite.** Goldbeck,
responding to Gration’s statement that “we know we are going to be held
accountable by you,” [tweeted](https://twitter.com/jgoldbeck/status/5599234951)
“Yes you will,” a message widely reposted by others.

Emily Diamond-Falk, a spokesperson for the Save Darfur Coalition, was more
amiable about the exchange with the White House. “As much transparency as they
can give us, they will do, without compromising their policy,” she told me. “He
wasn’t able to disclose as much information as we asked, which is going to
happen in these sorts of things. … It’s a very delicate line, so engaging policy
behind the scenes will still be necessary.”

### Making the online Q&A possible

Andrea Clarke, director of communications for the Save Darfur Coalition, pitched
the idea of a “live online town hall” to Gration’s communications director in
August. “We thought it would be something beneficial for activists to be
directly engaged around the [Sudan] policy,” Clarke said.

After suggesting the idea of an online town hall to Gration, the special envoy
suggested the student organization STAND be a part of the conversation as well.
“The special envoy’s office was very committed to answering as many questions as
possible, and the involvement of STAND was key to that process,” Clarke said.
“It made for a greater diversity of questions, and we feel the activist
community was very well represented.”

Gration’s travel itinerary made scheduling difficult, and in the end it occurred
without much advance notice. Clarke said Save Darfur received at least 500
questions from activists for the special envoy, and “I think if we have more
lead time we’ll have even more questions.”

As Micah Sifry
[wrote on Monday](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201200824/http://techpresident.com/blog-entry/ask-us-state-department-20-sudan-darfur-and-public-engagement 'TechPresident: Ask U.S., State Department 2.0 on Sudan, Darfur and Public Engagement'),
the willingness of the State Department and White House to engage openly and
publicly with advocates who are often critical seems unprecedented. Given the
negative response to Gration’s responses, might this kind of transparency be
short-lived?

Clarke said she had “no reason to believe there won’t be” similar events in the
future as part of the “Ask U.S.” program. Gration “appears to be working very
hard to get feedback,” she said. Gration himself
[wrote](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114080249/http://www.state.gov/s/sudan/listserve/131887.htm 'US State Department: Innovative Engagement with Advocacy Groups on Sudan')
that the State Department is “eager to continue an active and robust dialogue
with the advocacy community.”

Layla Amjadi of STAND lamented the lack of specificity in Gration’s answers,
[telling](https://www.voanews.com/a/a-13-2009-11-11-voa5-69822412/415509.html 'Voice of America: Student Activists Encourage White House to Raise Anti-Genocide Concerns about Darfur')
the Voice of America that activists “were really frustrated by how vague the
policy review was on benchmarks and pressures and incentives.” She called for an
approach involving bigger players than Gration alone — “Obama, Biden and
Clinton” — and
[declared](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114043535/http://www.standnow.org/blog/response-tuesdays-ask-us-meeting):

> Now that we _know_ that we’ve got their ear, let’s talk to them. They’re
> looking for us to hold them accountable. So let’s do it.

“There are certainly questions that activists who are voices for those who
cannot necessarily be heard right now have, and it’s important that those
questions are answered by the administration,” said Diamond-Falk. “The fact that
\[Gration\] engaged the Save Darfur Coalition and the student movement … proves
that activists have to have a voice on this issue and in this administration.”

### The future of high-level advocacy?

“We certainly hope that this can be one tactic that other advocacy groups can
use to demand accountability of the administration,” Clarke said. “I hope this
is something that’s taken on board by communications departments of other
advocacy groups.”

**Most organizations may not have the political pressure necessary to convince
public officials to host a live, online questioning.** The broad constituency
that has been active around Darfur and Southern Sudan for the past five years
was a definite advantage to making the webcast happen, Clarke said, as was
President Obama’s stated support on the campaign trail for resolving the crises
in Sudan.

**Gration’s willingness to engage activists on the issue, however, may have been
the most critical element** — it’s hard to imagine a live Q&A happening without
a public official’s support. “Gration appears to be working very hard to get
feedback,” Clarke said.

**Engaging more than one organization made the proposal more attractive to
public officials.** Save Darfur asked for the event, and the special envoy’s
office suggested a representative of student activists join as well. Gration’s
office wanted the event to be seen as legitimately representing the entire Sudan
advocacy movement, not simply a single pressure group.

**Cautious criticism seemed to have paid off in helping make the dialogue
possible.** Many Sudan advocacy organizations including STAND and Save Darfur
have been publicly supportive of the special envoy, while continuing to push for
more transparency and specifics. Gration had been criticized by some activists
as “naive” with some going so far as
[demanding his resignation](https://newrepublic.com/article/70919/the-ingratiator 'The New Republic: The Ingratiator'),
but responses from Save Darfur and STAND’s parent organization, the Genocide
Intervention Network, had largely
[not suggested](https://web.archive.org/web/20091112172651/http://www.genocideintervention.net/blog/2009/11/05/should_gration_be_fired_gi_net_responds 'Genocide Intervention Network: Should Gration be fired? GI-Net responds.')
that level of displeasure. “I think that we don’t always agree with the special
envoy’s office, but we maintain an open line of communication, and that has
helped us a lot,” Clarke said.

**As for the issue of Sudan, could pressure on legislators coupled with
Gration’s limited responses provoke more Congressional action?** The online
event with Gration directly followed a
[conference](https://web.archive.org/web/20091023040807/http://www.pledge2protect.net/ 'Pledge2Protect Conference')
for anti-genocide activists, including a full day of meetings with members of
Congress. Diamond-Falk pointed out that following the student lobbying and live
webchat, 44 members of Congress signed a
[letter to President Obama](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114034243/http://allafrica.com/stories/200911130892.html "AllAfrica: Letter from U.S. Members of Congress to the President on China's Involvement in Sudan")
ahead of his visit to China, a major trading partner of Sudan’s, urging the
president to make Sudan a priority in his discussions there.

Clarke said if a second online Q&A occurs, Save Darfur “will be pushing for
questions that are extremely direct from those who are suffering on the ground,”
suggesting the event can not only be a chance to connect activists to the
administration, but survivors of the genocide and wars in Sudan as well.

**Update:** Bec Hamilton
[reported](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/11/11/gration-and-power-answer-activists-questions-on-sudan/ "ForeignPolicy.com: Gration and Power answer activists' questions on Sudan")
that a _former_ State Department official had called Sudan activists “noise we
had to manage,” and I mistakenly attributed it to _current_ State Department
officials; it’s been corrected in the text above.

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2009-11-13/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Government accountability through web 2.0: A case study'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2009-11-13'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'government-accountability-through-web-20-case-study' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/091113'
description: 'Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
  representatives from Save Darfur and the student network STAND for an
  unprecedented live Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website. The
  webcast was notable not just for its interactivity -- members of both STAND
  and Save Darfur were encouraged to submit questions, which were then asked
  directly of Gration on air -- but for its accountability.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
  representatives from Save Darfur and the student network STAND for an
  unprecedented live Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website. The
  webcast was notable not just for its interactivity -- members of both STAND
  and Save Darfur were encouraged to submit questions, which were then asked
  directly of Gration on air -- but for its accountability.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'meeting-feet_flickr-mripp.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Meeting with activists' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'mripp'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'meeting-feet_flickr-mripp.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - communications
  - Facebook
  - Twitter
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-11'
---

![Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration, Samantha Power, and student activists](scott-gration-samantha-power_flickr-savedarfur.jpg)

This was originally posted on
[techPresident](https://web.archive.org/web/20120204074905/http://techpresident.com/blog-entry/sudan_case_study).

Last week, Special Envoy to Sudan Gen. Scott Gration sat down with
representatives from
[Save Darfur](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201194307/http://savedarfur.org/)
and the student network [STAND](https://standnow.org/) for an unprecedented live
Q&A, webcast directly from the White House website.

The event served as the launch of an initiative the White House is calling
[Ask U.S.](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2009/11/04/%e2%80%9cask-us%e2%80%9d-engaging-sudan-strategy 'White House: Ask U.S., Engaging on Sudan Strategy'),
“an effort to reach out to the advocacy communities and to solicit questions on
the U.S. Sudan policy from activists deeply and passionately engaged” around
Sudan.

[Watch a recording of the webcast.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNSXeMkiZ_M 'Whitehouse.gov: Ask U.S. live webcast (YouTube)')

Save Darfur Coalition Executive Director Jerry Fowler and STAND Student Director
Layla Amjadi were joined by Samantha Power — now the National Security Council’s
Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, but known more widely as the author of
_“A Problem from Hell”: America and the Age of Genocide_, a history of the
United States’ response to mass atrocities from Armenia to Rwanda. Power herself
was an inspiration for many of the anti-genocide organizations which exist
today, including the two that participated in this online exchange.

_Full disclosure: I was a co-founder of the Genocide Intervention Network,
STAND’s parent organization, and worked there until 2008._

### Calling for transparency, pushing for accountability

**The webcast was notable not just for its interactivity — members of both STAND
and Save Darfur were encouraged to
[submit questions](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114043828/http://standnow.org/node/2503 'STAND: What questions would you like Layla to ask Gration and Power?'),
which were then asked directly of Gration on air — but for its accountability.**

Some anti-genocide activists have been
[critical of the Obama administration](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/09/28/AR2009092802336_pf.html "Washington Post: U.S. Envoy's Outreach to Sudan Is Criticized as Naive")
for positioning Darfur and Sudan as a prominent human rights issue during the
campaign, but
[taking little action](https://web.archive.org/web/20091125041222/http://www.genocideintervention.net:80/network/pressroom/pressreleases/2009/09/29/2864 'Sudan Advocacy Groups React To General Gration’s Statements to The Washington Post')
since the election. Here was a chance for anti-genocide activists to put the
White House’s point person on Sudan on the spot and demand answers.

**The responses from Gration — Power, other than introducing and concluding the
event, largely remained silent — were generally panned by activists watching the
chat via Twitter and Facebook.** “In his opening remarks Gration said ‘we owe
you answers’ — you still do,” said
{{< deadlink "Will Fischer" "dl://twitter.com/willcfischer/statuses/5599271449" >}}.
“I respect the hell out of Sam Power but I’m not going to buy Gration’s vague
answers just because she’s sitting there,” said Genocide Intervention Network
Director of Membership
[Janessa Goldbeck](https://twitter.com/jgoldbeck/status/5599046520).

Bec Hamilton, who is writing a book about the advocacy movement around Sudan and
has worked with the Genocide Intervention Network, reported that the questions
for Gration had to be
[submitted ahead of time](http://bechamilton.com/2009/11/09/ask-us-responding-to-activists-or-managing-them/ 'Bec Hamilton: Responding to activists or managing them?'),
so it’s a little surprising his answers weren’t more sure-footed. Hamilton
[said](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/11/11/gration-and-power-answer-activists-questions-on-sudan/ "ForeignPolicy.com: Gration and Power answer activists' questions on Sudan")
a former official at the State Department had seen the event as a way to
“manage” the “noise” of activists, but:

> As it turned out, the shoe was on the other foot. Activists were given the
> opportunity to ask follow-up questions, and they pursued that avenue with such
> vigor that any fear of them being co-opted by their well-publicized access to
> the White House ceased to be a concern. What was a concern was the
> administration’s inability to provide concrete answers to the advocates’
> questions.

**If the White House was hoping the webcast would placate activists who had been
critical of US policy on Sudan, it seemed to do just the opposite.** Goldbeck,
responding to Gration’s statement that “we know we are going to be held
accountable by you,” [tweeted](https://twitter.com/jgoldbeck/status/5599234951)
“Yes you will,” a message widely reposted by others.

Emily Diamond-Falk, a spokesperson for the Save Darfur Coalition, was more
amiable about the exchange with the White House. “As much transparency as they
can give us, they will do, without compromising their policy,” she told me. “He
wasn’t able to disclose as much information as we asked, which is going to
happen in these sorts of things. … It’s a very delicate line, so engaging policy
behind the scenes will still be necessary.”

### Making the online Q&A possible

Andrea Clarke, director of communications for the Save Darfur Coalition, pitched
the idea of a “live online town hall” to Gration’s communications director in
August. “We thought it would be something beneficial for activists to be
directly engaged around the [Sudan] policy,” Clarke said.

After suggesting the idea of an online town hall to Gration, the special envoy
suggested the student organization STAND be a part of the conversation as well.
“The special envoy’s office was very committed to answering as many questions as
possible, and the involvement of STAND was key to that process,” Clarke said.
“It made for a greater diversity of questions, and we feel the activist
community was very well represented.”

Gration’s travel itinerary made scheduling difficult, and in the end it occurred
without much advance notice. Clarke said Save Darfur received at least 500
questions from activists for the special envoy, and “I think if we have more
lead time we’ll have even more questions.”

As Micah Sifry
[wrote on Monday](https://web.archive.org/web/20120201200824/http://techpresident.com/blog-entry/ask-us-state-department-20-sudan-darfur-and-public-engagement 'TechPresident: Ask U.S., State Department 2.0 on Sudan, Darfur and Public Engagement'),
the willingness of the State Department and White House to engage openly and
publicly with advocates who are often critical seems unprecedented. Given the
negative response to Gration’s responses, might this kind of transparency be
short-lived?

Clarke said she had “no reason to believe there won’t be” similar events in the
future as part of the “Ask U.S.” program. Gration “appears to be working very
hard to get feedback,” she said. Gration himself
[wrote](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114080249/http://www.state.gov/s/sudan/listserve/131887.htm 'US State Department: Innovative Engagement with Advocacy Groups on Sudan')
that the State Department is “eager to continue an active and robust dialogue
with the advocacy community.”

Layla Amjadi of STAND lamented the lack of specificity in Gration’s answers,
[telling](https://www.voanews.com/a/a-13-2009-11-11-voa5-69822412/415509.html 'Voice of America: Student Activists Encourage White House to Raise Anti-Genocide Concerns about Darfur')
the Voice of America that activists “were really frustrated by how vague the
policy review was on benchmarks and pressures and incentives.” She called for an
approach involving bigger players than Gration alone — “Obama, Biden and
Clinton” — and
[declared](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114043535/http://www.standnow.org/blog/response-tuesdays-ask-us-meeting):

> Now that we _know_ that we’ve got their ear, let’s talk to them. They’re
> looking for us to hold them accountable. So let’s do it.

“There are certainly questions that activists who are voices for those who
cannot necessarily be heard right now have, and it’s important that those
questions are answered by the administration,” said Diamond-Falk. “The fact that
\[Gration\] engaged the Save Darfur Coalition and the student movement … proves
that activists have to have a voice on this issue and in this administration.”

### The future of high-level advocacy?

“We certainly hope that this can be one tactic that other advocacy groups can
use to demand accountability of the administration,” Clarke said. “I hope this
is something that’s taken on board by communications departments of other
advocacy groups.”

**Most organizations may not have the political pressure necessary to convince
public officials to host a live, online questioning.** The broad constituency
that has been active around Darfur and Southern Sudan for the past five years
was a definite advantage to making the webcast happen, Clarke said, as was
President Obama’s stated support on the campaign trail for resolving the crises
in Sudan.

**Gration’s willingness to engage activists on the issue, however, may have been
the most critical element** — it’s hard to imagine a live Q&A happening without
a public official’s support. “Gration appears to be working very hard to get
feedback,” Clarke said.

**Engaging more than one organization made the proposal more attractive to
public officials.** Save Darfur asked for the event, and the special envoy’s
office suggested a representative of student activists join as well. Gration’s
office wanted the event to be seen as legitimately representing the entire Sudan
advocacy movement, not simply a single pressure group.

**Cautious criticism seemed to have paid off in helping make the dialogue
possible.** Many Sudan advocacy organizations including STAND and Save Darfur
have been publicly supportive of the special envoy, while continuing to push for
more transparency and specifics. Gration had been criticized by some activists
as “naive” with some going so far as
[demanding his resignation](https://newrepublic.com/article/70919/the-ingratiator 'The New Republic: The Ingratiator'),
but responses from Save Darfur and STAND’s parent organization, the Genocide
Intervention Network, had largely
[not suggested](https://web.archive.org/web/20091112172651/http://www.genocideintervention.net/blog/2009/11/05/should_gration_be_fired_gi_net_responds 'Genocide Intervention Network: Should Gration be fired? GI-Net responds.')
that level of displeasure. “I think that we don’t always agree with the special
envoy’s office, but we maintain an open line of communication, and that has
helped us a lot,” Clarke said.

**As for the issue of Sudan, could pressure on legislators coupled with
Gration’s limited responses provoke more Congressional action?** The online
event with Gration directly followed a
[conference](https://web.archive.org/web/20091023040807/http://www.pledge2protect.net/ 'Pledge2Protect Conference')
for anti-genocide activists, including a full day of meetings with members of
Congress. Diamond-Falk pointed out that following the student lobbying and live
webchat, 44 members of Congress signed a
[letter to President Obama](https://web.archive.org/web/20121114034243/http://allafrica.com/stories/200911130892.html "AllAfrica: Letter from U.S. Members of Congress to the President on China's Involvement in Sudan")
ahead of his visit to China, a major trading partner of Sudan’s, urging the
president to make Sudan a priority in his discussions there.

Clarke said if a second online Q&A occurs, Save Darfur “will be pushing for
questions that are extremely direct from those who are suffering on the ground,”
suggesting the event can not only be a chance to connect activists to the
administration, but survivors of the genocide and wars in Sudan as well.

**Update:** Bec Hamilton
[reported](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/11/11/gration-and-power-answer-activists-questions-on-sudan/ "ForeignPolicy.com: Gration and Power answer activists' questions on Sudan")
that a _former_ State Department official had called Sudan activists “noise we
had to manage,” and I mistakenly attributed it to _current_ State Department
officials; it’s been corrected in the text above.
