hugo/content/blog/2009-04-08/index.md, before:

---
title:
  "The fire and the food: Why there's no such thing as a Twitter revolution"
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2009-04-08'
# lastmod: '2022-07-14' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'fire-food-why-theres-no-such-thing-twitter-revolution' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/090408'
description: 'If organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a strategy in
  and of itself -- without considering the strategy apart from the tool -- they
  risk overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other platforms, or
  augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms. Worse, organizers risk giving
  supporters feel-good activism that quenches their desire for social change
  without actually moving the movement closer to a concrete goal, or putting any
  pressure on powerholders.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'If organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a strategy in and
  of itself -- without considering the strategy apart from the tool -- they risk
  overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other platforms, or
  augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms. Worse, organizers risk giving
  supporters feel-good activism that quenches their desire for social change
  without actually moving the movement closer to a concrete goal, or putting any
  pressure on powerholders.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'fire-teapot_flickr-susanneanette.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Teapots in the fire' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'susanneanette'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'fire-teapot_flickr-susanneanette.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Twitter
  - social change
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - Twitter
  - social change
  - social justice

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-04'
---

In the past two days, posts began popping up on Twitter with the tag
"[#pman](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pman&f=live 'View recent Twitter posts with this tag')”
— short for Piata Marii Adunari Nationale, the largest city square in the
capital of Moldova. Students were
[organizing](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/04/07/moldovas-twitter-revolution/ "'Moldova's Twitter Revolution' on Foreign Policy's net.effect"):

> Ever since yesterday’s announcement that Moldova’s communists have won enough
> votes to form a government in Sunday’s elections, Moldova’s progressive youth
> took to the streets in angry protests. As behooves any political protest by
> young people today, they also turned to Facebook and Twitter to raise
> awareness about the planned protests and flashmobs.

Writers like Evgeny Morozov, above, initially characterized this as a
“[Twitter revolution](https://www.wired.com/2009/04/inside-moldovas/ "'Inside Moldova's Twitter Revolution' on the Wired blog"),”
modeled in the real-time use of Twitter seen during the
[G20 protests](https://web.archive.org/web/20090604075703/http://www.digiactive.org/2009/04/02/tactic-twitter-the-new-journalism-part-2/ "'Tactic: Using Twitter to Coordinate Protests in London' on DigiActive"),
[election monitoring](http://votereportindia.pbworks.com/w/page/7646282/FAQ 'Vote Report India')
and crowd-sourcing the
[location of a certain torch](https://twitter.com/sftorch/status/785987727 'Twitter: SFTorch')
when it was passing through San Francisco. (Thus a little different than the
traditional
[nonprofit use of Twitter](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/03/7-more-charities-and-charitable-giving-foundations-that-tweet-and-where-to-find-more.html "'Nonprofits That Tweet: Roundup of lists, resources, and examples' by Beth Kanter").)

It’s certainly exciting to see technology being used in ways that amplify and
extend the impact of movement organizing. I think it’s easy, however, to misread
the technology as the _cause_ of the movement rather than as simply a tool of
it.

**Fire, for instance, was a society-changing tool. Its revolutionary potential,
however — cooking food and thus making it more digestible, nutritious, and
lasting — was only realized through its strategic use.**

Some people, awed by the fire, seem to confuse it with the food. This is
represented most clearly by Jon Pincus, who
[writes](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=561 "'Twitter *is* a strategy (DRAFT)' by Jon Pincus"):

> Twitter is a strategy.

He cites a number of campaigns that have used Twitter in successful ways as
evidence of this claim. To me, though, this simply shows that Twitter can be an
effective tool for a given strategy — but that’s not automatically the case.

Consider this: Why did organizers execute a given campaign on Twitter and not,
say, Identi.ca, FriendFeed, Jaiku or Ping.fm (similar microblogging services) —
or, for that matter, through Facebook statuses or MySpace bulletins?

**There’s a tendency to collapse the strategy and the tool — to attempt to feast
on the fire itself.** To say, “This is what we want to accomplish, and, hey!
there’s a tool that does that!” — and then equate the tool with the strategy.
But they’re still separate thought processes and separate stages in developing a
campaign.

It appears that Twitter was a good tool to use in the cases Jon cited and I
mentioned above. But if organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a
strategy in and of itself — without considering the strategy _apart_ from the
tool — they risk overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other
platforms, or augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms.

Worse, organizers risk giving supporters feel-good activism that quenches their
desire for social change without actually moving the movement closer to a
concrete goal, or putting any pressure on powerholders.

**The strategy _always_ comes first, and _then_ you figure out which tool fits.
The alternative? A forest fire.**

Political pamphlets, phone trees and jam-the-faxes must have seemed like
strategies in and of themselves when each technology first came out. But a
campaign that didn’t begin with a strategy to deploy those tools _in an
effective way_ wouldn’t have been successful.

The “real-time coverage” use of Twitter, in the style of
[TXTMob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TXTMob 'TXTMob, on Wikipedia'), can be
effective, and can even form part of the organization of a protest, as it did in
the case of the Olympic torch. But that’s not a strategy or even a revolution —
it’s simply street-level news. And in the case of Moldova, the
[organizing was happening elsewhere](https://frontlineclub.com/blogs/danielbennett/2009/04/the-myth-of-the-moldova-twitter-revolution.html "The myth of the Moldova 'Twitter revolution' by Daniel Bennett"):

> In fact Twitter did not play that big role. The story is quite simple — young
> and active bloggers decided to have a flash-mob action, lighting candles and
> ‘mourning Moldova’ because of Communists victory, which nobody recognized due
> to the multiple violations before and during the campaign. They agreed on the
> time and place of the action through the network of Moldovan blogs (blogs
> aggregator blogosfera.md), and social networks like Facebook/Odnoklassniki,
> etc.

In other words, the most effective _tools_ to execute the _strategy_ in question
— organizing opposition to the regime and making it visible to other Moldovans —
didn’t include Twitter.

In Evgeny Morozov’s
[analysis of Twitter in Moldova](https://web.archive.org/web/20130114225200/http://neteffect.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/04/07/more_analysis_of_twitters_role_in_moldova "'More analysis of Twitter's role in Moldova' by Evgeny Morozov"),
he says:

> It’s really good that the Moldovan students didn’t organize this revolution
> via Friendster or LiveJournal (which is still a platform for choice for many
> users in Eastern Europe). If they did, they would never have gotten as much
> attention from the rest of the world.

This perspective is an example of collapsing the strategy and the tool. More
specifically: **Getting attention from the rest of the world is _not_
automatically the objective of any given social change movement.**

Most social change organizers know this. There are moments when you want to
focus on building awareness and/or getting media attention, but that’s often not
the primary focus of the campaign. In the case of the Moldovan students, it
could be that what was most needed was a way to get organizers to identify and
strategize with one another — in which case Twitter would have been a very poor
(or at least fantastically blunt) tool.

Such perspective is possible only if you think of Twitter as one _possible_
tool, perfect for use in some strategies and rather ineffective in others. A
near-religious belief in Twitter (or any technology) _as a strategy_ leads to a
narrowing of the _actual_ strategy — getting the world to pay attention becomes
the goal, because, hey, that’s what Twitter can be effective at doing!

In this case, organizers might have gotten attention from beyond Moldova with a
few dozen Twitterers, but failed at their primary goal of making opposition to
the regime visible _to other Moldovans_.

As Alan Rosenblatt
[writes](https://web.archive.org/web/20130114225200/http://www.kstreetcafe.com/is-twitter-a-strategy-like-come-on/ "'Is Twitter a Strategy? Like, Come On!' by Alan Rosenblatt"),
different technologies have different ideologies, and tools that are more
“inherently democratic” like Twitter can be used as tools within a strategy that
empowers people to a much larger degree than one-way media like television. That
doesn’t negate the fact that the strategy — the reason for the campaign itself —
must be laid out first.

**Begin with your campaign’s strategy — the food you want to eat. Then determine
which technologies will best cultivate the fire within your supporters to
achieve the social change you seek.**

_Update: I misattributed something to Jon Pincus that was actually written by
Evgeny Morozov. It’s fixed, above._

Commit message:

adding link to blog mention

hugo/content/blog/2009-04-08/index.md, after:

---
title:
  "The fire and the food: Why there's no such thing as a Twitter revolution"
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2009-04-08'
lastmod: '2009-04-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'fire-food-why-theres-no-such-thing-twitter-revolution' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/090408'
description: 'If organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a strategy in
  and of itself -- without considering the strategy apart from the tool -- they
  risk overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other platforms, or
  augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms. Worse, organizers risk giving
  supporters feel-good activism that quenches their desire for social change
  without actually moving the movement closer to a concrete goal, or putting any
  pressure on powerholders.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'If organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a strategy in and
  of itself -- without considering the strategy apart from the tool -- they risk
  overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other platforms, or
  augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms. Worse, organizers risk giving
  supporters feel-good activism that quenches their desire for social change
  without actually moving the movement closer to a concrete goal, or putting any
  pressure on powerholders.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'fire-teapot_flickr-susanneanette.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'Teapots in the fire' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'susanneanette'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'fire-teapot_flickr-susanneanette.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
tags:
  - Twitter
  - social change
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - activism
  - social media
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - Twitter
  - social change
  - social justice

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2009'
month: '2009-04'
---

In the past two days, posts began popping up on Twitter with the tag
"[#pman](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pman&f=live 'View recent Twitter posts with this tag')”
— short for Piata Marii Adunari Nationale, the largest city square in the
capital of Moldova. Students were
[organizing](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/04/07/moldovas-twitter-revolution/ "'Moldova's Twitter Revolution' on Foreign Policy's net.effect"):

> Ever since yesterday’s announcement that Moldova’s communists have won enough
> votes to form a government in Sunday’s elections, Moldova’s progressive youth
> took to the streets in angry protests. As behooves any political protest by
> young people today, they also turned to Facebook and Twitter to raise
> awareness about the planned protests and flashmobs.

Writers like Evgeny Morozov, above, initially characterized this as a
“[Twitter revolution](https://www.wired.com/2009/04/inside-moldovas/ "'Inside Moldova's Twitter Revolution' on the Wired blog"),”
modeled in the real-time use of Twitter seen during the
[G20 protests](https://web.archive.org/web/20090604075703/http://www.digiactive.org/2009/04/02/tactic-twitter-the-new-journalism-part-2/ "'Tactic: Using Twitter to Coordinate Protests in London' on DigiActive"),
[election monitoring](http://votereportindia.pbworks.com/w/page/7646282/FAQ 'Vote Report India')
and crowd-sourcing the
[location of a certain torch](https://twitter.com/sftorch/status/785987727 'Twitter: SFTorch')
when it was passing through San Francisco. (Thus a little different than the
traditional
[nonprofit use of Twitter](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/03/7-more-charities-and-charitable-giving-foundations-that-tweet-and-where-to-find-more.html "'Nonprofits That Tweet: Roundup of lists, resources, and examples' by Beth Kanter").)

It’s certainly exciting to see technology being used in ways that amplify and
extend the impact of movement organizing. I think it’s easy, however, to misread
the technology as the _cause_ of the movement rather than as simply a tool of
it.

**Fire, for instance, was a society-changing tool. Its revolutionary potential,
however — cooking food and thus making it more digestible, nutritious, and
lasting — was only realized through its strategic use.**

Some people, awed by the fire, seem to confuse it with the food. This is
represented most clearly by Jon Pincus, who
[writes](https://www.talesfromthe.net/jon/?p=561 "'Twitter *is* a strategy (DRAFT)' by Jon Pincus"):

> Twitter is a strategy.

He cites a number of campaigns that have used Twitter in successful ways as
evidence of this claim. To me, though, this simply shows that Twitter can be an
effective tool for a given strategy — but that’s not automatically the case.

Consider this: Why did organizers execute a given campaign on Twitter and not,
say, Identi.ca, FriendFeed, Jaiku or Ping.fm (similar microblogging services) —
or, for that matter, through Facebook statuses or MySpace bulletins?

**There’s a tendency to collapse the strategy and the tool — to attempt to feast
on the fire itself.** To say, “This is what we want to accomplish, and, hey!
there’s a tool that does that!” — and then equate the tool with the strategy.
But they’re still separate thought processes and separate stages in developing a
campaign.

It appears that Twitter was a good tool to use in the cases Jon cited and I
mentioned above. But if organizers limit themselves to seeing Twitter as a
strategy in and of itself — without considering the strategy _apart_ from the
tool — they risk overlooking ways to run a more effective campaign on other
platforms, or augmenting a campaign using multiple platforms.

Worse, organizers risk giving supporters feel-good activism that quenches their
desire for social change without actually moving the movement closer to a
concrete goal, or putting any pressure on powerholders.

**The strategy _always_ comes first, and _then_ you figure out which tool fits.
The alternative? A forest fire.**

Political pamphlets, phone trees and jam-the-faxes must have seemed like
strategies in and of themselves when each technology first came out. But a
campaign that didn’t begin with a strategy to deploy those tools _in an
effective way_ wouldn’t have been successful.

The “real-time coverage” use of Twitter, in the style of
[TXTMob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TXTMob 'TXTMob, on Wikipedia'), can be
effective, and can even form part of the organization of a protest, as it did in
the case of the Olympic torch. But that’s not a strategy or even a revolution —
it’s simply street-level news. And in the case of Moldova, the
[organizing was happening elsewhere](https://frontlineclub.com/blogs/danielbennett/2009/04/the-myth-of-the-moldova-twitter-revolution.html "The myth of the Moldova 'Twitter revolution' by Daniel Bennett"):

> In fact Twitter did not play that big role. The story is quite simple — young
> and active bloggers decided to have a flash-mob action, lighting candles and
> ‘mourning Moldova’ because of Communists victory, which nobody recognized due
> to the multiple violations before and during the campaign. They agreed on the
> time and place of the action through the network of Moldovan blogs (blogs
> aggregator blogosfera.md), and social networks like Facebook/Odnoklassniki,
> etc.

In other words, the most effective _tools_ to execute the _strategy_ in question
— organizing opposition to the regime and making it visible to other Moldovans —
didn’t include Twitter.

In Evgeny Morozov’s
[analysis of Twitter in Moldova](https://web.archive.org/web/20130114225200/http://neteffect.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/04/07/more_analysis_of_twitters_role_in_moldova "'More analysis of Twitter's role in Moldova' by Evgeny Morozov"),
he says:

> It’s really good that the Moldovan students didn’t organize this revolution
> via Friendster or LiveJournal (which is still a platform for choice for many
> users in Eastern Europe). If they did, they would never have gotten as much
> attention from the rest of the world.

This perspective is an example of collapsing the strategy and the tool. More
specifically: **Getting attention from the rest of the world is _not_
automatically the objective of any given social change movement.**

Most social change organizers know this. There are moments when you want to
focus on building awareness and/or getting media attention, but that’s often not
the primary focus of the campaign. In the case of the Moldovan students, it
could be that what was most needed was a way to get organizers to identify and
strategize with one another — in which case Twitter would have been a very poor
(or at least fantastically blunt) tool.

Such perspective is possible only if you think of Twitter as one _possible_
tool, perfect for use in some strategies and rather ineffective in others. A
near-religious belief in Twitter (or any technology) _as a strategy_ leads to a
narrowing of the _actual_ strategy — getting the world to pay attention becomes
the goal, because, hey, that’s what Twitter can be effective at doing!

In this case, organizers might have gotten attention from beyond Moldova with a
few dozen Twitterers, but failed at their primary goal of making opposition to
the regime visible _to other Moldovans_.

As Alan Rosenblatt
[writes](https://web.archive.org/web/20130114225200/http://www.kstreetcafe.com/is-twitter-a-strategy-like-come-on/ "'Is Twitter a Strategy? Like, Come On!' by Alan Rosenblatt"),
different technologies have different ideologies, and tools that are more
“inherently democratic” like Twitter can be used as tools within a strategy that
empowers people to a much larger degree than one-way media like television. That
doesn’t negate the fact that the strategy — the reason for the campaign itself —
must be laid out first.

**Begin with your campaign’s strategy — the food you want to eat. Then determine
which technologies will best cultivate the fire within your supporters to
achieve the social change you seek.**

_Update, April 9, 2009: I misattributed something to Jon Pincus that was
actually written by Evgeny Morozov. It’s fixed, above._

_Update, April 13, 2009: More great coverage and discussion, as always,
[at Beth Kanter's blog](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/04/twitter-for-activism-tool-vs-strategy-debate-and-a-new-twitter-activism-guide.html),
which also excerpts part of the article above._
