hugo/content/blog/2008-05-28/index.md, before:

---
title: 'NetSquared project interviews and session notes'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2008-05-28'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'netsquared-project-interviews-session-notes' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/080528'
description: "Some really incredible presentations here at the NetSquared
  conference, both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz
  and I are busily collecting information for next Tuesday's Philly NetSquared
  event." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Some really incredible presentations here at the NetSquared
  conference, both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz
  and I are busily collecting information for next Tuesday's Philly NetSquared
  event." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'n2y3.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'NetSquared Conference Year Three' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image: NetSquared Conference Year Three (N2Y3) logo.'
thumbnail: 'n2y3.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - nonprofit technology
  - nptech
  - online advocacy

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

Some really incredible presentations here at the
[NetSquared conference](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710111814/http://www.netsquared.org/conference),
both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz and I are
busily collecting information for
[next Tuesday’s Philly NetSquared event](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709185617/http://netsquared.meetup.com/16/calendar/7890323/).

{{< deadlink "View photo from the conference." "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528919057/" >}}

Interview with **Abram Stern, Metavid**
[community video archive project](https://web.archive.org/web/20080705023937/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/metavid-community-video-archive-project).
“Metavid makes over a thousand hours of public domain US House and Senate floor
footage available. Enables participants to search who said what when, blog
clips, improve transcripts and edit sequences.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Abram Stern." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithAbramSternMetaVid675.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Erik Hersman, Ushadidi**
[mapping reports of post-election violence in Kenya](https://web.archive.org/web/20080706203924/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/ushahidi).
“Ushahidi is a conflict mapping and visualization tool first used to report
incidents of violence (and peace) happening in post-election Kenya via SMS,
email and the web.”

![Interview with Erik Hersman, Ushahidi ::legacy-float-r](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709185617im_/http://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithErikHersmanFromUshahidi381.MOV.jpg)
{{< deadlink "Video interview with Erik Hermann." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithErikHersmanFromUshahidi381.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Janessa Goldbeck, Genocide Intervention Network**
[anti-genocide action tracker](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709185617/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university)
developed by Ivan Boothe. “The Anti-Genocide Action Tracker will empower
activists with the tools to end genocide by alerting them to pending
anti-genocide legislation their state governments or elected representatives can
play key roles in passing.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Janessa Goldbeck." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithJanessaGoldbeckAntiGenocideActionTracker726.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Melinda Wittstock, Capitol News Connection**
[ask your lawmaker](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709185617/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/ask-your-lawmaker-national-local).
“Ask your lawmaker a question and CNC reporters get it answered: you listen and
share via ‘grabbable’ widgets customizable by issue/location for Congress, state
capitols and town halls with social networking and APIs.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Melinda Wittstock." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3AskYourLawmaker749.flv" >}}

More photos:
{{< deadlink "Knowmore.org" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528909201/" >}},
{{< deadlink "NetSquared conference schwag" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2529723670/" >}},
{{< deadlink "Genocide Intervention Network" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528906941/" >}}

Those working on building websites may be interested in the write up of
[Building a Community Network with Plone](https://web.archive.org/web/20080531154255/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/laurawhitehead/n2y3con-building-community-network-plone)
by Steve McMahon. “Steve is a Plone consultant and integrator specializing in
non-profit organizations and is also the Web Team Chair at the Davis Community
Network (a 501c3), an organization that promotes the use of Internet
technologies for local and regional community building. He’s going to share with
us how Plone can be used for sites large and small, and about how Plone can be
used to build and used to serve for a geographic community.”

Meanwhile, Benji Burrell of [iLoveMountains.org](https://ilovemountains.org/)
delivered a presentation about their online advocacy, including an innovative
[zip code lookup feature](https://ilovemountains.org/my-connection), a nice
[mashup of legislative data](https://web.archive.org/web/20081202045035/http://www.ilovemountains.org/action/write_your_rep/)
from Democracy in Action, a great
[action map](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708031046/http://www.ilovemountains.org/take_action/)
implementation of the open-source
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709221135/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/)
software, and
[embeddable widgets](https://ilovemountains.org/bloggers-challenge/#sandbox)
created through
[Sprout Builder](https://web.archive.org/web/20080713123256/http://sproutbuilder.com/).

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2008-05-28/index.md, after:

---
title: 'NetSquared project interviews and session notes'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2008-05-28'
# lastmod: '2022-07-16' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'netsquared-project-interviews-session-notes' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/080528'
description: "Some really incredible presentations here at the NetSquared
  conference, both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz
  and I are busily collecting information for next Tuesday's Philly NetSquared
  event." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Some really incredible presentations here at the NetSquared
  conference, both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz
  and I are busily collecting information for next Tuesday's Philly NetSquared
  event." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'n2y3.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'NetSquared Conference Year Three' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image: NetSquared Conference Year Three (N2Y3) logo.'
thumbnail: 'n2y3.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - nonprofit technology
  - online advocacy
tags:
  -
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2008'
month: '2008-05'
---

Some really incredible presentations here at the
[NetSquared conference](https://web.archive.org/web/20080710111814/http://www.netsquared.org/conference),
both from featured projects and individual speakers. Seth Horwitz and I are
busily collecting information for
[next Tuesday’s Philly NetSquared event](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709185617/http://netsquared.meetup.com/16/calendar/7890323/).

{{< deadlink "View photo from the conference." "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528919057/" >}}

Interview with **Abram Stern, Metavid**
[community video archive project](https://web.archive.org/web/20080705023937/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/metavid-community-video-archive-project).
“Metavid makes over a thousand hours of public domain US House and Senate floor
footage available. Enables participants to search who said what when, blog
clips, improve transcripts and edit sequences.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Abram Stern." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithAbramSternMetaVid675.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Erik Hersman, Ushadidi**
[mapping reports of post-election violence in Kenya](https://web.archive.org/web/20080706203924/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/ushahidi).
“Ushahidi is a conflict mapping and visualization tool first used to report
incidents of violence (and peace) happening in post-election Kenya via SMS,
email and the web.”

![Interview with Erik Hersman, Ushahidi ::legacy-float-r](https://web.archive.org/web/20160709185617im_/http://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithErikHersmanFromUshahidi381.MOV.jpg)
{{< deadlink "Video interview with Erik Hermann." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithErikHersmanFromUshahidi381.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Janessa Goldbeck, Genocide Intervention Network**
[anti-genocide action tracker](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709185617/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/anti-genocide-action-tracker-genocide-scores-every-politician-state-and-university)
developed by Ivan Boothe. “The Anti-Genocide Action Tracker will empower
activists with the tools to end genocide by alerting them to pending
anti-genocide legislation their state governments or elected representatives can
play key roles in passing.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Janessa Goldbeck." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3InterviewWithJanessaGoldbeckAntiGenocideActionTracker726.MOV" >}}

Interview with **Melinda Wittstock, Capitol News Connection**
[ask your lawmaker](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709185617/http://netsquared.org/2008/conference/projects/ask-your-lawmaker-national-local).
“Ask your lawmaker a question and CNC reporters get it answered: you listen and
share via ‘grabbable’ widgets customizable by issue/location for Congress, state
capitols and town halls with social networking and APIs.”

{{< deadlink "Video interview with Melinda Wittstock." "dl://blip.tv/file/get/Netsquared-N2Y3AskYourLawmaker749.flv" >}}

More photos:
{{< deadlink "Knowmore.org" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528909201/" >}},
{{< deadlink "NetSquared conference schwag" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2529723670/" >}},
{{< deadlink "Genocide Intervention Network" "dl://www.flickr.com/photos/schipulites/2528906941/" >}}

Those working on building websites may be interested in the write up of
[Building a Community Network with Plone](https://web.archive.org/web/20080531154255/http://www.netsquared.org/blog/laurawhitehead/n2y3con-building-community-network-plone)
by Steve McMahon. “Steve is a Plone consultant and integrator specializing in
non-profit organizations and is also the Web Team Chair at the Davis Community
Network (a 501c3), an organization that promotes the use of Internet
technologies for local and regional community building. He’s going to share with
us how Plone can be used for sites large and small, and about how Plone can be
used to build and used to serve for a geographic community.”

Meanwhile, Benji Burrell of [iLoveMountains.org](https://ilovemountains.org/)
delivered a presentation about their online advocacy, including an innovative
[zip code lookup feature](https://ilovemountains.org/my-connection), a nice
[mashup of legislative data](https://web.archive.org/web/20081202045035/http://www.ilovemountains.org/action/write_your_rep/)
from Democracy in Action, a great
[action map](https://web.archive.org/web/20080708031046/http://www.ilovemountains.org/take_action/)
implementation of the open-source
[ForwardTrack](https://web.archive.org/web/20080709221135/http://forwardtrack.eyebeamresearch.org/)
software, and
[embeddable widgets](https://ilovemountains.org/bloggers-challenge/#sandbox)
created through
[Sprout Builder](https://web.archive.org/web/20080713123256/http://sproutbuilder.com/).
