hugo/content/blog/2006-05-30/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Different kinds of elites (and different kinds of elitism)'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2006-05-30'
# lastmod: '2022-07-18' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'different-kinds-elites-different-kinds-elitism' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/060530'
description: "Keep these different types of elites in mind as we think about the
  intersections of technology and social change. One way of achieving change is
  by appealing to the state's powerholders -- traditional power, that is. But
  throughout history, coalitions of people without this power have banded
  together to effect change. It may be that among the three other types of
  elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true democratic change." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Keep these different types of elites in mind as we think about the
  intersections of technology and social change. One way of achieving change is
  by appealing to the state's powerholders -- traditional power, that is. But
  throughout history, coalitions of people without this power have banded
  together to effect change. It may be that among the three other types of
  elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true democratic change." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: '787-first-class_flickr-john_pozadzides.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A first-class flight' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [John
  Pozadzides](https://www.flickr.com/photos/97705426@N00).'
thumbnail: '787-first-class_flickr-john_pozadzides.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - social change
  - social justice

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-05'
---

In his
[NetSquared presentation](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009224506/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/conference-sessions/making-the-most-of-disruption)
with [Howard Rheingold](https://rheingold.com/),
[Paul Saffo](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009230616/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/confirmed-presenters/paul-saffo-director-and-roy-amara-fellow-institute-for-the-future)
said that social movements, online and otherwise, “need elites” in order to
effect change.

At first, this struck me as a popular myth — that social movements never
accomplish things through activism alone — when in fact that’s been pretty
[spectacularly disproven](https://www.nonviolent-conflict.org/force-powerful-english/).

But then Paul continued, and said that what he meant was “thought leaders” like
Dr. King — an instructive example, since his oratories and marches were
supported by a network of churches and supporters and
[specific strategic planning](https://highlandercenter.org/) that made his
leadership possible.

Earlier,
[Angela Glover-Blackwell](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009234211/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/conference-sessions/conversation-with-angela-glover-blackwell)
noted that traditionally, social change organizations had acted as the
representatives for the vulnerable. Now, those voices are breaking through
without the need for these nonprofits — a potentially threatening prospect.

That made me think about the different kinds of “elites” that social movements
and social networks engender. In my mind, there are four:

- **Power elites** are the traditional decisionmakers, who might also be termed
  [Weberian elites](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopoly_on_violence) because
  of their support by the state. They have a strong hold on direct power, though
  has been shown through nonviolent conflict and the “paradox of repression”
  (think of the dictators overthrown by popular movements) they nonetheless
  depend on a limited sort of consent from those over whom they rule.
- **Resource elites** are those who have the infrastructure (or the capacity to
  develop it) to make things possible — be that change or stasis. Traditionally
  this has been people with the most money or natural resources; a relevant
  aspect of this today would be people (or communities) with the most access
  to technology.
- **Idea elites** are the ideological leaders who emerge, either hierarchically
  or communally, from a given social movement. These are the people who develop
  policy and drive debates — but much of their power comes from the movement
  itself; while they can lead to a limited extent, they are always in danger of
  losing their power to the next big thinker.
- **Literacy elites** are those who can “read” the situation. They might be the
  ones most familiar with the technology (be that movable type or Movable Type)
  or the ones most adept at community organizing. Today, they might be the
  teenager who can navigate among the SNSes (and, as Howard Rheingold pointed
  out, may even be unaware of their political power).

It seems important to me to keep these different types of elites in mind as we
think about the intersections of technology and social change. One way of
achieving change is by appealing to the state’s powerholders — traditional
power, that is. But throughout history, coalitions of people without this power
have banded together to effect change. It may be that among the three other
types of elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true
democratic change.

One final thought:
[Daniel Ben-Horin](https://web.archive.org/web/20071009155523/http://www.netsquared.org/2006/conference/confirmed-presenters/daniel-ben-horin-founder-and-president-compumentor)
made an off-hand comment about how many people had been trained in a kind of
vanguard activism — acting in the “best interests” of people. I think focusing
on these different kinds of elites allows for something closer to
[Paolo Freire](https://infed.org/mobi/paulo-freire-dialogue-praxis-and-education/)’s
“cointentional education” in which everyone is a student and
[liberation is bound up together](https://web.archive.org/web/20061230064445/http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~oliver/soc220/Lectures220/General/AntiRacism%20Quotes.htm).

**Update:** Ethan Zuckerman makes a related point in his
[presentation](https://ethanzuckerman.com/2006/05/30/my-talk/ 'Read the entire presentation at the NetSquared conference.')
when he says the new mantra for advocacy organizations should be: “Don’t
speak. Point.”

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2006-05-30/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Different kinds of elites (and different kinds of elitism)'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2006-05-30'
# lastmod: '2022-07-18' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'different-kinds-elites-different-kinds-elitism' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/060530'
description: "Keep these different types of elites in mind as we think about the
  intersections of technology and social change. One way of achieving change is
  by appealing to the state's powerholders -- traditional power, that is. But
  throughout history, coalitions of people without this power have banded
  together to effect change. It may be that among the three other types of
  elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true democratic change." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "Keep these different types of elites in mind as we think about the
  intersections of technology and social change. One way of achieving change is
  by appealing to the state's powerholders -- traditional power, that is. But
  throughout history, coalitions of people without this power have banded
  together to effect change. It may be that among the three other types of
  elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true democratic change." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: '787-first-class_flickr-john_pozadzides.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A first-class flight' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
featureImageCreditCustom:
  'Top image credit Flickr user [John
  Pozadzides](https://www.flickr.com/photos/97705426@N00).'
thumbnail: '787-first-class_flickr-john_pozadzides.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2006'
month: '2006-05'
---

In his
[NetSquared presentation](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009224506/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/conference-sessions/making-the-most-of-disruption)
with [Howard Rheingold](https://rheingold.com/),
[Paul Saffo](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009230616/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/confirmed-presenters/paul-saffo-director-and-roy-amara-fellow-institute-for-the-future)
said that social movements, online and otherwise, “need elites” in order to
effect change.

At first, this struck me as a popular myth — that social movements never
accomplish things through activism alone — when in fact that’s been pretty
[spectacularly disproven](https://www.nonviolent-conflict.org/force-powerful-english/).

But then Paul continued, and said that what he meant was “thought leaders” like
Dr. King — an instructive example, since his oratories and marches were
supported by a network of churches and supporters and
[specific strategic planning](https://highlandercenter.org/) that made his
leadership possible.

Earlier,
[Angela Glover-Blackwell](https://web.archive.org/web/20061009234211/http://www.netsquared.org/conference/conference-sessions/conversation-with-angela-glover-blackwell)
noted that traditionally, social change organizations had acted as the
representatives for the vulnerable. Now, those voices are breaking through
without the need for these nonprofits — a potentially threatening prospect.

That made me think about the different kinds of “elites” that social movements
and social networks engender. In my mind, there are four:

- **Power elites** are the traditional decisionmakers, who might also be termed
  [Weberian elites](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopoly_on_violence) because
  of their support by the state. They have a strong hold on direct power, though
  has been shown through nonviolent conflict and the “paradox of repression”
  (think of the dictators overthrown by popular movements) they nonetheless
  depend on a limited sort of consent from those over whom they rule.
- **Resource elites** are those who have the infrastructure (or the capacity to
  develop it) to make things possible — be that change or stasis. Traditionally
  this has been people with the most money or natural resources; a relevant
  aspect of this today would be people (or communities) with the most access
  to technology.
- **Idea elites** are the ideological leaders who emerge, either hierarchically
  or communally, from a given social movement. These are the people who develop
  policy and drive debates — but much of their power comes from the movement
  itself; while they can lead to a limited extent, they are always in danger of
  losing their power to the next big thinker.
- **Literacy elites** are those who can “read” the situation. They might be the
  ones most familiar with the technology (be that movable type or Movable Type)
  or the ones most adept at community organizing. Today, they might be the
  teenager who can navigate among the SNSes (and, as Howard Rheingold pointed
  out, may even be unaware of their political power).

It seems important to me to keep these different types of elites in mind as we
think about the intersections of technology and social change. One way of
achieving change is by appealing to the state’s powerholders — traditional
power, that is. But throughout history, coalitions of people without this power
have banded together to effect change. It may be that among the three other
types of elites, a social movement can emerge that represents true
democratic change.

One final thought:
[Daniel Ben-Horin](https://web.archive.org/web/20071009155523/http://www.netsquared.org/2006/conference/confirmed-presenters/daniel-ben-horin-founder-and-president-compumentor)
made an off-hand comment about how many people had been trained in a kind of
vanguard activism — acting in the “best interests” of people. I think focusing
on these different kinds of elites allows for something closer to
[Paolo Freire](https://infed.org/mobi/paulo-freire-dialogue-praxis-and-education/)’s
“cointentional education” in which everyone is a student and
[liberation is bound up together](https://web.archive.org/web/20061230064445/http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~oliver/soc220/Lectures220/General/AntiRacism%20Quotes.htm).

**Update:** Ethan Zuckerman makes a related point in his
[presentation](https://ethanzuckerman.com/2006/05/30/my-talk/ 'Read the entire presentation at the NetSquared conference.')
when he says the new mantra for advocacy organizations should be: “Don’t
speak. Point.”
