hugo/content/blog/2010-04-09/index.md, before:

---
title: 'What online activism can learn from community organizing'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-04-09'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'what-online-activism-can-learn-from-community-organizing' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/100409'
description: 'Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere. The methods and
  tactics of online activists -- be they individuals or international nonprofits
  with hundreds of staff -- are drawn on social change movements and community
  organizing strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed,
  tweaked, and tried again, long before the Internet existed.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere. The methods and tactics of
  online activists -- be they individuals or international nonprofits with
  hundreds of staff -- are drawn on social change movements and community
  organizing strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed,
  tweaked, and tried again, long before the Internet existed.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'crowd_flickr-povertyinitiative.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A crowd of activists' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'povertyinitiative'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'crowd_flickr-povertyinitiative.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - community
  - social change
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - online advocacy
  - activism
  - nptech
  - community
  - communities
  - community organizing
  - social change
  - social justice

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-04'
---

**Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere.** The methods and tactics of
online activists — be they individuals or international nonprofits with hundreds
of staff — are drawn on social change movements and community organizing
strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed, tweaked, and tried
again, long before the Internet existed.

Yet there’s often a disconnect between what’s seen as online activism — referred
to as “slacktivism,” sometimes accurately but oftentimes sloppily — and
community-based social change. And that’s what I’m covering today at the
[2010 Nonprofit Technology Conference](https://www.nten.org/ntc/), along with
[Debra Askanase](https://web.archive.org/web/20120204213748/http://www.communityorganizer20.com/)
and [Amy Sample Ward](https://amysampleward.org/), in a session called
[Bringing Community Organizing Into Online Campaigns](https://web.archive.org/web/20100713125922/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=9e27f6a5-1720-4ad1-8ee0-058a2260bcbb).

### What I mean by community organizing

The idea of community organizing has always been weighted with both political
implications and social context, and so one person’s interpretation of what
“counts” as community organizing — and what its implications are — will vary
from the next.

**For my purposes here, I’m using community organizing as the idea that
individuals have more power to create change by coming together than by acting
alone. Community organizing empowers these individuals, creates long-term change
and challenges the structure of power.**

Previously I’ve argued that with the rise of “web 2.0,”
[everybody is learning how to be a community organizer](/blog/2009/09/gurus-are-not-enough-call-organizers-organizing-social-media).
The principles of how to mobilize friends and neighbors around a particular
issue — whether it’s a social cause or a hot party — are being learned every
time someone creates a Facebook event.

So I think it’s reasonable to look at how traditional, on-the-street community
organizing can inform purposeful online activism. Once we move beyond the “blast
all your friends with a link to a petition” phase, there are concrete
_strategies_ to which we can turn. And many of those strategies are drawn
directly from a century or more of social mobilization.

### Principles of community organizing

There are five primary ideas in which traditional community organizing is
rooted: **movement-building, strategy, community accountability, going where the
people are, and cultivating leadership**. There are more principles and
strategies to be sure (and you may disagree whether these five are at the top),
but I see these as having the most to say to online activism.

#### Organizing for a movement

Community organizing is based on long-term strategy. “Empowerment” — that is,
facilitating the realization among individuals and communities that they have
the power to effect change — is not something you expect to occur overnight.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Every action should be pointing people
toward a greater goal.** It’s straightfoward enough to get people out to a
single event, or taking a single online action. But cultivating those
individuals so they see their action as part of a long-term campaign is
something that takes…

#### Strategy, strategy, strategy

I’ve written before about the fact that social media isn’t about doing _less_
organizing, it’s about
[doing it better](/blog/2009/05/social-change-takes-more-social-media). A theory
of social change is critical to an individual or organization engaging in online
activism. Will signing this petition against the war put pressure on elected
leaders to alter policies? Will this upcoming rally (or “virtual march”)
demonstrate a community’s growing power — or is it “busy work” for supporters
who haven’t been asked to do anything in a while?

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Too many nonprofits, unfortunately,
seem to engage in token actions that don’t move things forward as part of an
overall strategy.** And even when a given action is a part of a strategy,
nonprofits are often vague about communicating that to supporters. Exactly _how_
will calling this legislator advance a critical piece of legislation? Is there a
chance the bill will actually pass? If not, there could be other legitimate
strategy to build public support for it — things are long-term, remember? — but
organizations must be clear to supporters that “victory” in this case won’t be a
new law, but, for instance, 10 vocal new supporters in Congress.

#### Being accountable to a real-world community

Community organizers are often derided as rabble-rousers, troublemakers, or
professional activists who dupe people into following them. But true community
organizing isn’t about swooping in and ginning up outrage by telling the locals
to fight the man. It’s generally approached as much more
[Freirian](/blog/2009/10/finding-movements-voice-online-social-networks-social-change)
— taking direction from and being accountable to the local community. Organizers
bring their experience of tactics and strategy, and may serve to inspire people
that they _do_ have the power to make change. But the causes around which
communities organize should come from the community itself.

_How this relates to online activism:_ Technology is
[too often seen as a strategy in and of itself](/blog/2009/04/fire-food-why-theres-no-such-thing-twitter-revolution).
But the Internet and social media — like fax machines, phone trees and the
printing press before them — are simply tools, able to be used tactically to
great effect, but only when part of a larger strategy. Focusing on the tech
divorces a campaign from its community, and leaves the online organizer in the
role of the “expert” — “I’ll show you how to use Twitter to clean up your city!”
— leaving little room for a community to actually control the direction of a
campaign.

**Remembering that the community’s long-term strategy is paramount — and being
willing to listen, discern and collaborate with that community — will help keep
the people whose lives and livelihoods are on the line actually in charge.**

#### Go where the people are

Social change happens in communal spaces — not always public, but nearly always
intimate to the community as it exists. Workers’ homes and pubs in the labor
movement, black churches in the US civil rights movement, gay bars in the gay
rights movement, and college campuses in numerous student movements attest to
this fact.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Rarely will it be effective to create a
private “walled garden” social network that you have to convince people to join
and become active on.** Different communities are on different social networks
online — and
[it’s important to know where your constituencies are](/blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more#weaving)
— on Facebook, MySpace, Twitter or somewhere else. The places where a community
is most active socially are most likely to be the places where it’s most
effective to organize. If you’re organizing in a sensitive environment, you may
have to establish some level of privacy around your campaign, but only _after_
you’ve already engaged people where they are.

#### Cultivating sustainable leadership

This is an area to which traditional community organizing aspires, but doesn’t
always succeed. The temptation for a “charismatic leader” to emerge and
indefinitely control the direction of a social change campaign can be strong.
Participants may initially be relieved that they don’t have to “take the heat”
when things get tough, and can look to their leader for direction.

Yet time and again we’ve seen movements collapse when the leader — having
captured power within the movement or had it thrust upon him or her — burns out
or becomes unable to continue. Increasingly in the past half-century, social
movements have attempted to make their approaches more sustainable by
cultivating leadership, bringing people from the margins into the center and
mentoring and encouraging emerging leaders.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Seek to put yourself out of a job.**
The best online campaigns are the ones that are self-sustaining. Encourage those
who are taking the most action to begin to brainstorm new ideas and actions for
the campaign. Reward people who are doing the most recruiting, and make them
feel that they’re a part of the “core” of the organizing.

For nonprofits — and I know this will be hard to hear — stop pretending that
you’re the only organization active on the issue. Support your members who
become active in allied groups and consider working in coalitions early and
often. Not only will this cement your supporters’ dedication to the cause, it
will build the identity of a long-term movement, rather than a limited
“card-carrying member” view of participation.

### Help continue this conversation

Below, I’ve embedded the slides of our presentation, which goes beyond the
things I’ve discussed above and includes an exciting interactive workshop
component — so if you’re at NTC,
[please do stop by](https://web.archive.org/web/20120202003828/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=9e27f6a5-1720-4ad1-8ee0-058a2260bcbb 'View time, location and other information on this session')!

And as I wrote awhile back
[in a similar discussion on Beth Kanter's blog](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/06/listening-leads-to-engagement-relationship-models.html):

> The old model of nonprofit/social change theory is that the organization has
> the power. You sign up with an organization _in order to_ have an impact; the
> organization mobilizes its supporters successfully based on their numbers but
> fundamentally the strategy is coming from the top.
>
> The new model of social change embodied in the social web is the wisdom of the
> network. The power isn't inherent in the organization though they may act as
> the catalyst. In this case people become part of the organization _as part of
> the process_ of having an impact. Indeed, many of the most effective
> supporters may be "outside" the organization on paper. The value comes from
> the network rather than the membership.

So in some ways, the dynamics of social media is actually driving us toward more
sustainable, honest organizing, in which advocacy groups can provide expertise,
training, resources and education, but it's the grassroots that is mobilizing to
effect change. Looked at this way, a lot of day-to-day online organizers have
already taken up the best parts of offline community organizing -- and it's on
the "professional activists" to catch up.

---

**I welcome any thoughts, comments or ideas. How do you see community organizing
informing — or being separate from — online activism? What examples have you
seen of successes or failures?**

_**Ivan Boothe** is a social change scholar with a degree in peace and conflict
studies. With hundreds of hours of training in community organizing and years of
experience in real-world social change, he’s excited about the ways in which
social media can, when used strategically, amplify the ability of activists to
change the world._

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2010-04-09/index.md, after:

---
title: 'What online activism can learn from community organizing'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-04-09'
# lastmod: '2022-07-13' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'what-online-activism-can-learn-from-community-organizing' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/100409'
description: 'Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere. The methods and
  tactics of online activists -- be they individuals or international nonprofits
  with hundreds of staff -- are drawn on social change movements and community
  organizing strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed,
  tweaked, and tried again, long before the Internet existed.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere. The methods and tactics of
  online activists -- be they individuals or international nonprofits with
  hundreds of staff -- are drawn on social change movements and community
  organizing strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed,
  tweaked, and tried again, long before the Internet existed.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'crowd_flickr-povertyinitiative.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A crowd of activists' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'povertyinitiative'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'crowd_flickr-povertyinitiative.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - online advocacy
  - activism
tags:
  - community
  - social change
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  - community organizing

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-04'
---

**Online activism didn’t come out of nowhere.** The methods and tactics of
online activists — be they individuals or international nonprofits with hundreds
of staff — are drawn on social change movements and community organizing
strategies that have been tried, experimented with, failed, tweaked, and tried
again, long before the Internet existed.

Yet there’s often a disconnect between what’s seen as online activism — referred
to as “slacktivism,” sometimes accurately but oftentimes sloppily — and
community-based social change. And that’s what I’m covering today at the
[2010 Nonprofit Technology Conference](https://www.nten.org/ntc/), along with
[Debra Askanase](https://web.archive.org/web/20120204213748/http://www.communityorganizer20.com/)
and [Amy Sample Ward](https://amysampleward.org/), in a session called
[Bringing Community Organizing Into Online Campaigns](https://web.archive.org/web/20100713125922/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=9e27f6a5-1720-4ad1-8ee0-058a2260bcbb).

### What I mean by community organizing

The idea of community organizing has always been weighted with both political
implications and social context, and so one person’s interpretation of what
“counts” as community organizing — and what its implications are — will vary
from the next.

**For my purposes here, I’m using community organizing as the idea that
individuals have more power to create change by coming together than by acting
alone. Community organizing empowers these individuals, creates long-term change
and challenges the structure of power.**

Previously I’ve argued that with the rise of “web 2.0,”
[everybody is learning how to be a community organizer](/blog/2009/09/gurus-are-not-enough-call-organizers-organizing-social-media).
The principles of how to mobilize friends and neighbors around a particular
issue — whether it’s a social cause or a hot party — are being learned every
time someone creates a Facebook event.

So I think it’s reasonable to look at how traditional, on-the-street community
organizing can inform purposeful online activism. Once we move beyond the “blast
all your friends with a link to a petition” phase, there are concrete
_strategies_ to which we can turn. And many of those strategies are drawn
directly from a century or more of social mobilization.

### Principles of community organizing

There are five primary ideas in which traditional community organizing is
rooted: **movement-building, strategy, community accountability, going where the
people are, and cultivating leadership**. There are more principles and
strategies to be sure (and you may disagree whether these five are at the top),
but I see these as having the most to say to online activism.

#### Organizing for a movement

Community organizing is based on long-term strategy. “Empowerment” — that is,
facilitating the realization among individuals and communities that they have
the power to effect change — is not something you expect to occur overnight.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Every action should be pointing people
toward a greater goal.** It’s straightfoward enough to get people out to a
single event, or taking a single online action. But cultivating those
individuals so they see their action as part of a long-term campaign is
something that takes…

#### Strategy, strategy, strategy

I’ve written before about the fact that social media isn’t about doing _less_
organizing, it’s about
[doing it better](/blog/2009/05/social-change-takes-more-social-media). A theory
of social change is critical to an individual or organization engaging in online
activism. Will signing this petition against the war put pressure on elected
leaders to alter policies? Will this upcoming rally (or “virtual march”)
demonstrate a community’s growing power — or is it “busy work” for supporters
who haven’t been asked to do anything in a while?

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Too many nonprofits, unfortunately,
seem to engage in token actions that don’t move things forward as part of an
overall strategy.** And even when a given action is a part of a strategy,
nonprofits are often vague about communicating that to supporters. Exactly _how_
will calling this legislator advance a critical piece of legislation? Is there a
chance the bill will actually pass? If not, there could be other legitimate
strategy to build public support for it — things are long-term, remember? — but
organizations must be clear to supporters that “victory” in this case won’t be a
new law, but, for instance, 10 vocal new supporters in Congress.

#### Being accountable to a real-world community

Community organizers are often derided as rabble-rousers, troublemakers, or
professional activists who dupe people into following them. But true community
organizing isn’t about swooping in and ginning up outrage by telling the locals
to fight the man. It’s generally approached as much more
[Freirian](/blog/2009/10/finding-movements-voice-online-social-networks-social-change)
— taking direction from and being accountable to the local community. Organizers
bring their experience of tactics and strategy, and may serve to inspire people
that they _do_ have the power to make change. But the causes around which
communities organize should come from the community itself.

_How this relates to online activism:_ Technology is
[too often seen as a strategy in and of itself](/blog/2009/04/fire-food-why-theres-no-such-thing-twitter-revolution).
But the Internet and social media — like fax machines, phone trees and the
printing press before them — are simply tools, able to be used tactically to
great effect, but only when part of a larger strategy. Focusing on the tech
divorces a campaign from its community, and leaves the online organizer in the
role of the “expert” — “I’ll show you how to use Twitter to clean up your city!”
— leaving little room for a community to actually control the direction of a
campaign.

**Remembering that the community’s long-term strategy is paramount — and being
willing to listen, discern and collaborate with that community — will help keep
the people whose lives and livelihoods are on the line actually in charge.**

#### Go where the people are

Social change happens in communal spaces — not always public, but nearly always
intimate to the community as it exists. Workers’ homes and pubs in the labor
movement, black churches in the US civil rights movement, gay bars in the gay
rights movement, and college campuses in numerous student movements attest to
this fact.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Rarely will it be effective to create a
private “walled garden” social network that you have to convince people to join
and become active on.** Different communities are on different social networks
online — and
[it’s important to know where your constituencies are](/blog/2008/10/using-social-networks-social-change-facebook-myspace-more#weaving)
— on Facebook, MySpace, Twitter or somewhere else. The places where a community
is most active socially are most likely to be the places where it’s most
effective to organize. If you’re organizing in a sensitive environment, you may
have to establish some level of privacy around your campaign, but only _after_
you’ve already engaged people where they are.

#### Cultivating sustainable leadership

This is an area to which traditional community organizing aspires, but doesn’t
always succeed. The temptation for a “charismatic leader” to emerge and
indefinitely control the direction of a social change campaign can be strong.
Participants may initially be relieved that they don’t have to “take the heat”
when things get tough, and can look to their leader for direction.

Yet time and again we’ve seen movements collapse when the leader — having
captured power within the movement or had it thrust upon him or her — burns out
or becomes unable to continue. Increasingly in the past half-century, social
movements have attempted to make their approaches more sustainable by
cultivating leadership, bringing people from the margins into the center and
mentoring and encouraging emerging leaders.

_How this relates to online activism:_ **Seek to put yourself out of a job.**
The best online campaigns are the ones that are self-sustaining. Encourage those
who are taking the most action to begin to brainstorm new ideas and actions for
the campaign. Reward people who are doing the most recruiting, and make them
feel that they’re a part of the “core” of the organizing.

For nonprofits — and I know this will be hard to hear — stop pretending that
you’re the only organization active on the issue. Support your members who
become active in allied groups and consider working in coalitions early and
often. Not only will this cement your supporters’ dedication to the cause, it
will build the identity of a long-term movement, rather than a limited
“card-carrying member” view of participation.

### Help continue this conversation

Below, I’ve embedded the slides of our presentation, which goes beyond the
things I’ve discussed above and includes an exciting interactive workshop
component — so if you’re at NTC,
[please do stop by](https://web.archive.org/web/20120202003828/https://www.ntenonline.org/eweb/DynamicPage.aspx?webcode=SessionDetails&ses_key=9e27f6a5-1720-4ad1-8ee0-058a2260bcbb 'View time, location and other information on this session')!

And as I wrote awhile back
[in a similar discussion on Beth Kanter's blog](https://beth.typepad.com/beths_blog/2009/06/listening-leads-to-engagement-relationship-models.html):

> The old model of nonprofit/social change theory is that the organization has
> the power. You sign up with an organization _in order to_ have an impact; the
> organization mobilizes its supporters successfully based on their numbers but
> fundamentally the strategy is coming from the top.
>
> The new model of social change embodied in the social web is the wisdom of the
> network. The power isn't inherent in the organization though they may act as
> the catalyst. In this case people become part of the organization _as part of
> the process_ of having an impact. Indeed, many of the most effective
> supporters may be "outside" the organization on paper. The value comes from
> the network rather than the membership.

So in some ways, the dynamics of social media is actually driving us toward more
sustainable, honest organizing, in which advocacy groups can provide expertise,
training, resources and education, but it's the grassroots that is mobilizing to
effect change. Looked at this way, a lot of day-to-day online organizers have
already taken up the best parts of offline community organizing -- and it's on
the "professional activists" to catch up.

---

**I welcome any thoughts, comments or ideas. How do you see community organizing
informing — or being separate from — online activism? What examples have you
seen of successes or failures?**

_**Ivan Boothe** is a social change scholar with a degree in peace and conflict
studies. With hundreds of hours of training in community organizing and years of
experience in real-world social change, he’s excited about the ways in which
social media can, when used strategically, amplify the ability of activists to
change the world._
