hugo/content/blog/2010-12-17/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Google Chrome for a cause, or, nonprofit deathmatch strikes again'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-12-17'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'google-chrome-cause-nonprofit-deathmatch-strikes-again' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/101217'
description: "It's great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and
  letting people decide where those donations go. But it's frustrating how
  Chrome for a Cause is rooted in a scarcity model — in which organizations must
  compete rather than collaborate." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "It's great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and letting
  people decide where those donations go. But it's frustrating how Chrome for a
  Cause is rooted in a scarcity model — in which organizations must compete
  rather than collaborate." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'duel_flickr-uwdigitalcollections.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A duel' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'uwdigitalcollections'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'duel_flickr-uwdigitalcollections.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
tags:
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - fundraising
  - Google Chrome
  - Chrome for a Cause

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-12'
---

![Google Chrome for a Cause](chrome-cause.jpg ' ')

Google has initiated a project it calls
[Chrome for a Cause](https://web.archive.org/web/20101219022105/http://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/ 'Read more about Chrome for a Cause'),
in which every person who uses its Chrome browser will generate a small donation
for each tab that they open, to a charity of their choice. The project runs from
Dec. 15 to 19, and includes five charities: The Nature Conservancy, charity:
water, Doctors Without Borders, Un Techo para mi País, and Room to Read. Google
will donate a
{{< deadlink "combined total of up to $1 million" "dl://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/tos/" >}}
to the five charities.

To have your Chrome tabs count, you must first install a small extension to your
copy of Chrome. There’s a maximum of 250 tabs per day, and one tab per second,
that count toward your cause. You also
{{< deadlink "must have a Google account" "dl://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/privacy/" >}}
to submit your totals.

### What I like about it

It’s great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and not the usual
milquetoast public awareness charities, but organizations that do good, concrete
things. And it’s nice that on the Chrome for a Cause page, they have links to
“donate directly” under the description of each organization.

It’s also nice that people who participate in Chrome for a Cause get to choose —
from Google’s list of five charities — where they want their portion of the
money generated to go.

### What I’m less thrilled about

**The cleverness of it is lost on me.** “We’ll donate money for every tab you
open, if you download an extension for it,” seems like if a car dealer said,
“Hey, for the month of December, every time you open the back left door of your
car, I’ll donate 10 cents to a charity that you choose. (But you have to come in
to the dealership to get a counter installed on that door.)”

I get that it’s tied to the use of the browser, and anything that gets people to
use the browser more (and set up Google accounts if they don’t have them) is a
plus for them. So it makes sense for _Google_ to put the tabs-for-charity
schtick on this project, but I don’t see how it makes any kind of sense at all
to the public. Which leads me to…

**It feels creepy that Google is exploiting the holiday season of goodwill to
get more usage out of its browser.** I know that corporations don’t make
donations to nonprofits without getting something in return, but this seems more
gratuitous than usual. And, of course, it could breed the ultimate form of
“slacktivism” — ineffective digital activism — in which opening a tab to donate
a few cents assuages a person’s sense of needing to contribute to making the
world a better place.

**Not even a glancing mention on their page of how much is donated for each
tab.** Once you download the extension, it calculates how much your tabs have
donated so far, in things rather than dollars (e.g. 0.3 trees; the full
breakdown is
[on their blog](https://chrome.googleblog.com/2010/12/browse-for-good-cause.html "Read Google's blog entry describing Chrome for a Cause")),
so it’s hard to know exactly how much each tab is worth in monetary terms. But
even measuring it in what it will buy, why should we have to install the
extension in order to find out what our possible impact will be?

**It promotes the idea of organizational competition — the nonprofit
deathmatch.** Take a look at the screenshot above: You can _either_ donate 9
vaccinations, _or_ 23 books, _or_ one person’s clean water. I know that these
kinds of competitions are all the rage — they even have a name,
[crowdsourcing](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911000054/http://www.moderngiving.com/2009/07/crowdsourcing-philanthropy-greater-transparency/ 'About crowdsourcing philanthropy on Modern Giving')
[philanthropy](https://web.archive.org/web/20101009111313/http://content.usatoday.com/communities/kindness/post/2009/11/innovative-crowdsourcing-philanthropy-contest-launches-on-facebook-today-with-5-million-in-total-winnings/1 'News report on the crowdsourced Chase Community Giving on Facebook')
— but it’s frustrating to me how it’s rooted in a scarcity model, in which
organizations must compete rather than collaborate. I’m sure, for instance, that
each of these nonprofits is encouraging their members to “donate tabs” to them,
rather than others.

In fact, since Google has capped its donation at $1 million, and it’s relatively
certain they will reach that amount given their reach, what participants are
really voting for is allocation. “We’ve got a million dollars; vote with your
tabs on what percentage should go to The Nature Conservancy,” they’re saying. So
every vote to one organization takes money away from another.

### How it could be better

**Be transparent about what the impact is.** Google should say, on the Chrome
for Cause page itself, how many tabs you have to open to plant a tree (for
instance).

**Integrate concrete actions from the charities.** Doctors Without Borders
doesn’t _just_ ask people for money — they have, for instance, a big campaign to
pressure governments
[not to prevent affordable generic medicines](https://web.archive.org/web/20100702205106/http://www.msfaccess.org:80/ 'Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines')
from being exported to the Global South, and another advocating for
[humanitarian food aid that provides adequate nutrition](https://web.archive.org/web/20110218075603/http://www.starvedforattention.org/take-action.php 'Starved for Attention').
At the end of each day, when a person submits their votes, why not end with
something like “Great! Now here are more things you can do to support this
charity…”

**Pick one charity each week/month/season.** This might be a little
controversial, since more exposure for more nonprofits seems like a good thing,
and part of this project’s appeal is the ability for people to pick where their
money goes. But by acting as a kind of “matching grant” for a nonprofit — “We’ll
donate $1 million to this organization, if our users open at least 1 million
tabs this week” — Google can generate exposure for the organization and its
browser, without forcing groups into the boxing ring against one another.

**Pick one _charity field_ each week/month/season.** Instead of choosing a
single environmental group for its donation, Google could choose to donate money
equally to five or ten nonprofits in the same sector. This would encourage
collaboration between nonprofits working on the same issue to work together in
asking their supporters to participate.

**Support nonprofits year-round.** It’s cute that Google is donating some money
in December, to (sort of) coincide with the holidays, but there’s no reason they
can’t do this for longer than a week. By making it an ongoing project and
cycling through different organizations, Google can donate money to nonprofits,
but also give its far more lucrative asset: attention.

**What are your thoughts on Chrome for a Cause?**

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2010-12-17/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Google Chrome for a cause, or, nonprofit deathmatch strikes again'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2010-12-17'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'google-chrome-cause-nonprofit-deathmatch-strikes-again' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/101217'
description: "It's great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and
  letting people decide where those donations go. But it's frustrating how
  Chrome for a Cause is rooted in a scarcity model — in which organizations must
  compete rather than collaborate." # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: "It's great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and letting
  people decide where those donations go. But it's frustrating how Chrome for a
  Cause is rooted in a scarcity model — in which organizations must compete
  rather than collaborate." # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

featureImage: 'duel_flickr-uwdigitalcollections.jpg' # Top image on post.
featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
featureImageAlt: 'A duel' # Alternative text for featured image.
featureImageCreditFlickr: 'uwdigitalcollections'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
thumbnail: 'duel_flickr-uwdigitalcollections.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
tags:
  -
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  - Google Chrome
  - Chrome for a Cause

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2010'
month: '2010-12'
---

![Google Chrome for a Cause](chrome-cause.jpg ' ')

Google has initiated a project it calls
[Chrome for a Cause](https://web.archive.org/web/20101219022105/http://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/ 'Read more about Chrome for a Cause'),
in which every person who uses its Chrome browser will generate a small donation
for each tab that they open, to a charity of their choice. The project runs from
Dec. 15 to 19, and includes five charities: The Nature Conservancy, charity:
water, Doctors Without Borders, Un Techo para mi País, and Room to Read. Google
will donate a
{{< deadlink "combined total of up to $1 million" "dl://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/tos/" >}}
to the five charities.

To have your Chrome tabs count, you must first install a small extension to your
copy of Chrome. There’s a maximum of 250 tabs per day, and one tab per second,
that count toward your cause. You also
{{< deadlink "must have a Google account" "dl://www.google.com/chrome/intl/en/p/cause/privacy/" >}}
to submit your totals.

### What I like about it

It’s great that Google is directing money to nonprofits, and not the usual
milquetoast public awareness charities, but organizations that do good, concrete
things. And it’s nice that on the Chrome for a Cause page, they have links to
“donate directly” under the description of each organization.

It’s also nice that people who participate in Chrome for a Cause get to choose —
from Google’s list of five charities — where they want their portion of the
money generated to go.

### What I’m less thrilled about

**The cleverness of it is lost on me.** “We’ll donate money for every tab you
open, if you download an extension for it,” seems like if a car dealer said,
“Hey, for the month of December, every time you open the back left door of your
car, I’ll donate 10 cents to a charity that you choose. (But you have to come in
to the dealership to get a counter installed on that door.)”

I get that it’s tied to the use of the browser, and anything that gets people to
use the browser more (and set up Google accounts if they don’t have them) is a
plus for them. So it makes sense for _Google_ to put the tabs-for-charity
schtick on this project, but I don’t see how it makes any kind of sense at all
to the public. Which leads me to…

**It feels creepy that Google is exploiting the holiday season of goodwill to
get more usage out of its browser.** I know that corporations don’t make
donations to nonprofits without getting something in return, but this seems more
gratuitous than usual. And, of course, it could breed the ultimate form of
“slacktivism” — ineffective digital activism — in which opening a tab to donate
a few cents assuages a person’s sense of needing to contribute to making the
world a better place.

**Not even a glancing mention on their page of how much is donated for each
tab.** Once you download the extension, it calculates how much your tabs have
donated so far, in things rather than dollars (e.g. 0.3 trees; the full
breakdown is
[on their blog](https://chrome.googleblog.com/2010/12/browse-for-good-cause.html "Read Google's blog entry describing Chrome for a Cause")),
so it’s hard to know exactly how much each tab is worth in monetary terms. But
even measuring it in what it will buy, why should we have to install the
extension in order to find out what our possible impact will be?

**It promotes the idea of organizational competition — the nonprofit
deathmatch.** Take a look at the screenshot above: You can _either_ donate 9
vaccinations, _or_ 23 books, _or_ one person’s clean water. I know that these
kinds of competitions are all the rage — they even have a name,
[crowdsourcing](https://web.archive.org/web/20150911000054/http://www.moderngiving.com/2009/07/crowdsourcing-philanthropy-greater-transparency/ 'About crowdsourcing philanthropy on Modern Giving')
[philanthropy](https://web.archive.org/web/20101009111313/http://content.usatoday.com/communities/kindness/post/2009/11/innovative-crowdsourcing-philanthropy-contest-launches-on-facebook-today-with-5-million-in-total-winnings/1 'News report on the crowdsourced Chase Community Giving on Facebook')
— but it’s frustrating to me how it’s rooted in a scarcity model, in which
organizations must compete rather than collaborate. I’m sure, for instance, that
each of these nonprofits is encouraging their members to “donate tabs” to them,
rather than others.

In fact, since Google has capped its donation at $1 million, and it’s relatively
certain they will reach that amount given their reach, what participants are
really voting for is allocation. “We’ve got a million dollars; vote with your
tabs on what percentage should go to The Nature Conservancy,” they’re saying. So
every vote to one organization takes money away from another.

### How it could be better

**Be transparent about what the impact is.** Google should say, on the Chrome
for Cause page itself, how many tabs you have to open to plant a tree (for
instance).

**Integrate concrete actions from the charities.** Doctors Without Borders
doesn’t _just_ ask people for money — they have, for instance, a big campaign to
pressure governments
[not to prevent affordable generic medicines](https://web.archive.org/web/20100702205106/http://www.msfaccess.org:80/ 'Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines')
from being exported to the Global South, and another advocating for
[humanitarian food aid that provides adequate nutrition](https://web.archive.org/web/20110218075603/http://www.starvedforattention.org/take-action.php 'Starved for Attention').
At the end of each day, when a person submits their votes, why not end with
something like “Great! Now here are more things you can do to support this
charity…”

**Pick one charity each week/month/season.** This might be a little
controversial, since more exposure for more nonprofits seems like a good thing,
and part of this project’s appeal is the ability for people to pick where their
money goes. But by acting as a kind of “matching grant” for a nonprofit — “We’ll
donate $1 million to this organization, if our users open at least 1 million
tabs this week” — Google can generate exposure for the organization and its
browser, without forcing groups into the boxing ring against one another.

**Pick one _charity field_ each week/month/season.** Instead of choosing a
single environmental group for its donation, Google could choose to donate money
equally to five or ten nonprofits in the same sector. This would encourage
collaboration between nonprofits working on the same issue to work together in
asking their supporters to participate.

**Support nonprofits year-round.** It’s cute that Google is donating some money
in December, to (sort of) coincide with the holidays, but there’s no reason they
can’t do this for longer than a week. By making it an ongoing project and
cycling through different organizations, Google can donate money to nonprofits,
but also give its far more lucrative asset: attention.

**What are your thoughts on Chrome for a Cause?**
