hugo/content/blog/2011-03-01/index.md, before:

---
title: 'A grant for your mission, as a poem'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2011-03-01'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'grant-your-mission-as-poem' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/110301'
description: 'The Community TechKnowledge Foundation announced today a grant of
  $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of their mission -- in the
  form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be turned into a song by
  Bill Dillon; there are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars
  autographed by members of Los Lonely Boys. The deadline is March 28.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'The Community TechKnowledge Foundation announced today a grant of
  $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of their mission -- in the
  form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be turned into a song by
  Bill Dillon; there are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars
  autographed by members of Los Lonely Boys. The deadline is March 28.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

# featureImage: 'feature.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
# featureImageAlt: 'Description of image' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
# thumbnail: 'thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
tags:
keywords: # For SEO. Generally a combination of categories and tags.
  - fundraising

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2011'
month: '2011-03'
---

The
[Community TechKnowledge Foundation](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://communitytech.net/)
announced today a grant of $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of
their mission — in the form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be
turned into a song by
[Bill Dillon](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2010-10-07/entertainment/ct-live-1007-william-dillon-20101007_1_evanston-florida-man-redemption-song),
a songwriter who was wrongfully imprisoned for 27 years and freed by the
[Innocence Project of Florida](https://www.floridainnocence.org/).

There are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars autographed by
members of Los Lonely Boys. (A tertiary prize, “tech grants” from CTK, probably
aren’t worth it as they only last for three months and lock you into their
proprietary system — but you don’t have to include an application for these
grants in your submission.)

[Read more information about the grant](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://communitytech.net/foundation),
or take a look at the
[grant application](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/https://www.ctkodm.com/ctkfoundationgrant/).
The deadline is March 28.

If you don’t feel up to turning your mission into poetry, this is a great
opportunity to solicit submissions from your supporters. Even if you don’t win,
you may have some useful new language to talk about what you do!

Commit message:

removing all but custom meta tags

hugo/content/blog/2011-03-01/index.md, after:

---
title: 'A grant for your mission, as a poem'
author: Ivan Boothe
date: '2011-03-01'
# lastmod: '2022-07-12' # Appends 'edited on' to the publish date

slug: 'grant-your-mission-as-poem' # Recommended length is 3 to 5 words.
aliases:
  - '/p/110301'
description: 'The Community TechKnowledge Foundation announced today a grant of
  $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of their mission -- in the
  form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be turned into a song by
  Bill Dillon; there are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars
  autographed by members of Los Lonely Boys. The deadline is March 28.' # For SEO and social media snippets.
summary: 'The Community TechKnowledge Foundation announced today a grant of
  $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of their mission -- in the
  form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be turned into a song by
  Bill Dillon; there are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars
  autographed by members of Los Lonely Boys. The deadline is March 28.' # For the post in lists.

draft: false # Change to 'false' to publish this post.
featured: false
toc: false

showDate: true
showReadTime: true
showShare: true

# menu: main

# featureImage: 'feature.jpg' # Top image on post.
# featureImageShade: true # Add a translucent shade to the image to make overlaid text easier to read.
# featureImageAlt: 'Description of image' # Alternative text for featured image.
# featureImageCreditFlickr: 'username'
# featureImageCreditCustom: 'Top image credit Flickr user [username](https://www.flickr.com/photos/username).'
# thumbnail: 'thumbnail.jpg' # Image in lists of posts.
# shareImage: 'share.jpg' # For SEO and social media snippets. Falls back to thumbnail (if set) or featureImage.

codeMaxLines: 10 # Override global value for how many lines within a code block before auto-collapsing.
codeLineNumbers: false # Override global value for showing of line numbers within code block.
figurePositionShow: false # Override global value for showing the figure label.
showRelatedInArticle: false # Override global value for showing related posts in this series at the end of the content.

categories:
  - fundraising
tags:
  -
keywords: # Extra keywords in addition to the above, for SEO.
  -

# Archive taxonomy terms (auto-generated)
year: '2011'
month: '2011-03'
---

The
[Community TechKnowledge Foundation](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://communitytech.net/)
announced today a grant of $10,000 for a nonprofit that submits a description of
their mission — in the form of a poem. Along with the grant, the poetry will be
turned into a song by
[Bill Dillon](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2010-10-07/entertainment/ct-live-1007-william-dillon-20101007_1_evanston-florida-man-redemption-song),
a songwriter who was wrongfully imprisoned for 27 years and freed by the
[Innocence Project of Florida](https://www.floridainnocence.org/).

There are also secondary prizes for $5,000, $1,000, and guitars autographed by
members of Los Lonely Boys. (A tertiary prize, “tech grants” from CTK, probably
aren’t worth it as they only last for three months and lock you into their
proprietary system — but you don’t have to include an application for these
grants in your submission.)

[Read more information about the grant](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/http://communitytech.net/foundation),
or take a look at the
[grant application](https://web.archive.org/web/20150910223614/https://www.ctkodm.com/ctkfoundationgrant/).
The deadline is March 28.

If you don’t feel up to turning your mission into poetry, this is a great
opportunity to solicit submissions from your supporters. Even if you don’t win,
you may have some useful new language to talk about what you do!
